standard_library_documents/Custom Python Interpreters/codeop - Compile Python code.md, before:

# codeop - Compile Python code

The `codeop` module in Python is used to compile Python source code into bytecode, which can then be executed by the CPython interpreter. This can be useful for various purposes such as parsing and transforming code or optimizing it before execution.

Here are comprehensive examples demonstrating different functionalities of the `codeop` module:

```python
import codeop

# Function to compile a string of Python code into bytecode
def compile_code(code_string):
    # Use codeop.compile_command() to compile the code string
    try:
        compiled_code = codeop.compile_command(code_string)
        return compiled_code
    except SyntaxError as e:
        print(f"Syntax error: {e}")
        return None

# Example usage of compile_code()
code_to_compile = """
def hello_world():
    print("Hello, World!")
"""

compiled_result = compile_code(code_to_compile)

if compiled_result:
    # Execute the compiled bytecode
    exec(compiled_result)
```

### Explanation:

1. **`compile_command()` Function**: This function is used to compile a string of Python code into a compiled object (a `code` instance). It processes the input string according to the rules of the Python grammar and compiles it into bytecode.

2. **Error Handling**: The example includes basic error handling to catch and print syntax errors when the input code does not conform to Python's syntax rules.

3. **Executing Compiled Code**: Once compiled, you can execute the bytecode using `exec()`. This function takes a compiled object and evaluates its contents in the current scope.

### Additional Examples:

#### Example 2: Compiling and Executing Multiple Statements

```python
# String containing multiple statements
multiple_statements = """
x = 10
y = 20
z = x + y
print(z)
"""

compiled_result_multiple = compile_code(multiple_statements)

if compiled_result_multiple:
    exec(compiled_result_multiple)
```

#### Example 3: Using `compile()` Function

The `codeop` module also provides a direct way to use the built-in `compile()` function from Python's standard library.

```python
# String containing Python code
another_code = "a = [1, 2, 3]; b = a + [4, 5]; print(b)"

compiled_result_direct = compile(another_code, "<string>", "exec")

if compiled_result_direct:
    exec(compiled_result_direct)
```

#### Example 4: Compiling and Executing Code with Specific Mode

You can specify the mode of compilation using the `mode` parameter in the `compile()` function. This allows you to differentiate between statement execution (`"exec"`), expression evaluation (`"eval"`), or module creation (`"single"`).

```python
# String containing Python code
code_for_module = """
def my_function():
    return "Hello, from a module!"
"""

compiled_result_module = compile(code_for_module, "<module>", "single")

if compiled_result_module:
    # This will create a module object and execute the code inside it
    exec(compiled_result_module)
```

### Explanation:

- **`mode` Parameter**: The `mode` parameter in the `compile()` function specifies how to interpret the input string. `"exec"` executes all statements, `"eval"` evaluates a single expression, and `"single"` creates a module object.

These examples demonstrate various ways to use the `codeop` module for compiling and executing Python code, covering different scenarios such as executing multiple statements, using built-in functions, and handling errors gracefully.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Custom Python Interpreters/codeop - Compile Python code.md, after:

# codeop - Compile Python code
## Table of Contents

1. [Explanation:](#explanation)
2. [Additional Examples:](#additional-examples)
3. [Example 2: Compiling and Executing Multiple Statements](#example-2-compiling-and-executing-multiple-statements)
4. [Example 3: Using `compile()` Function](#example-3-using-compile-function)
5. [Example 4: Compiling and Executing Code with Specific Mode](#example-4-compiling-and-executing-code-with-specific-mode)
6. [Explanation:](#explanation)



The `codeop` module in Python is used to compile Python source code into bytecode, which can then be executed by the CPython interpreter. This can be useful for various purposes such as parsing and transforming code or optimizing it before execution.

Here are comprehensive examples demonstrating different functionalities of the `codeop` module:

```python
import codeop

# Function to compile a string of Python code into bytecode
def compile_code(code_string):
    # Use codeop.compile_command() to compile the code string
    try:
        compiled_code = codeop.compile_command(code_string)
        return compiled_code
    except SyntaxError as e:
        print(f"Syntax error: {e}")
        return None

# Example usage of compile_code()
code_to_compile = """
def hello_world():
    print("Hello, World!")
"""

compiled_result = compile_code(code_to_compile)

if compiled_result:
    # Execute the compiled bytecode
    exec(compiled_result)
```

### Explanation:

1. **`compile_command()` Function**: This function is used to compile a string of Python code into a compiled object (a `code` instance). It processes the input string according to the rules of the Python grammar and compiles it into bytecode.

2. **Error Handling**: The example includes basic error handling to catch and print syntax errors when the input code does not conform to Python's syntax rules.

3. **Executing Compiled Code**: Once compiled, you can execute the bytecode using `exec()`. This function takes a compiled object and evaluates its contents in the current scope.

### Additional Examples:

#### Example 2: Compiling and Executing Multiple Statements

```python
# String containing multiple statements
multiple_statements = """
x = 10
y = 20
z = x + y
print(z)
"""

compiled_result_multiple = compile_code(multiple_statements)

if compiled_result_multiple:
    exec(compiled_result_multiple)
```

#### Example 3: Using `compile()` Function

The `codeop` module also provides a direct way to use the built-in `compile()` function from Python's standard library.

```python
# String containing Python code
another_code = "a = [1, 2, 3]; b = a + [4, 5]; print(b)"

compiled_result_direct = compile(another_code, "<string>", "exec")

if compiled_result_direct:
    exec(compiled_result_direct)
```

#### Example 4: Compiling and Executing Code with Specific Mode

You can specify the mode of compilation using the `mode` parameter in the `compile()` function. This allows you to differentiate between statement execution (`"exec"`), expression evaluation (`"eval"`), or module creation (`"single"`).

```python
# String containing Python code
code_for_module = """
def my_function():
    return "Hello, from a module!"
"""

compiled_result_module = compile(code_for_module, "<module>", "single")

if compiled_result_module:
    # This will create a module object and execute the code inside it
    exec(compiled_result_module)
```

### Explanation:

- **`mode` Parameter**: The `mode` parameter in the `compile()` function specifies how to interpret the input string. `"exec"` executes all statements, `"eval"` evaluates a single expression, and `"single"` creates a module object.

These examples demonstrate various ways to use the `codeop` module for compiling and executing Python code, covering different scenarios such as executing multiple statements, using built-in functions, and handling errors gracefully.
