standard_library_documents/Data Compression and Archiving/zipfile - Work with ZIP archives.md, before:

# zipfile - Work with ZIP archives

Certainly! Below are comprehensive examples demonstrating various functionalities of the `zipfile` module in Python, along with explanations for each step:

### 1. Creating and Writing to a Zip File

```python
import zipfile

def create_zip_file(filename):
    # Create a new zip file in write mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(filename, 'w') as myzip:
        # Add files to the zip archive
        myzip.write('file1.txt', compress_type=zipfile.ZIP_DEFLATED)
        myzip.write('file2.txt', compress_type=zipfile.ZIP_DEFLATED)

# Usage
create_zip_file('example.zip')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`zipfile.ZipFile(filename, 'w')`**: Opens a new zip file for writing. The `'w'` mode creates a new zip file or overwrites an existing one.
- **`myzip.write(file_path, compress_type=zipfile.ZIP_DEFLATED)`**: Adds the specified file to the zip archive. You can choose different compression methods like `ZIP_STORED`, `ZIP_DEFLATED`, etc.

### 2. Reading from a Zip File

```python
import zipfile

def read_from_zip_file(filename):
    # Open an existing zip file in read mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(filename, 'r') as myzip:
        # Extract all files to the current directory
        myzip.extractall()

# Usage
read_from_zip_file('example.zip')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`zipfile.ZipFile(filename, 'r')`**: Opens an existing zip file for reading.
- **`myzip.extractall()`**: Extracts all contents of the zip archive to the directory where the script is run.

### 3. Adding Files Directly from a Directory

```python
import zipfile

def add_files_from_directory(source_dir, destination_zip):
    # Open an existing zip file in append mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(destination_zip, 'a') as myzip:
        # Walk through the source directory and add all files
        for root, dirs, files in os.walk(source_dir):
            for file in files:
                file_path = os.path.join(root, file)
                myzip.write(file_path, os.path.relpath(file_path, source_dir))

# Usage
add_files_from_directory('source_directory', 'example.zip')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`zipfile.ZipFile(destination_zip, 'a')`**: Opens an existing zip file for appending new files.
- **`os.walk(source_dir)`**: Walks through the specified directory and its subdirectories, yielding directories (root) and filenames (files).
- **`myzip.write(file_path, os.path.relpath(file_path, source_dir))`**: Adds each file to the zip archive using a relative path to ensure correct extraction.

### 4. Extracting Specific Files

```python
import zipfile

def extract_specific_files(zip_filename, files_to_extract):
    # Open an existing zip file in read mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r') as myzip:
        # Extract specific files from the zip archive
        for file in files_to_extract:
            myzip.extract(file)

# Usage
extract_specific_files('example.zip', ['file1.txt'])
```

**Explanation:**
- **`myzip.extract(file)`**: Extracts a single file from the zip archive. You can specify which file to extract using its path within the zip.

### 5. Listing All Files in a Zip File

```python
import zipfile

def list_files_in_zip(zip_filename):
    # Open an existing zip file in read mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r') as myzip:
        # List all files in the zip archive
        for member in myzip.infolist():
            print(member.filename)

# Usage
list_files_in_zip('example.zip')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`myzip.infolist()`**: Returns a list of `ZipInfo` objects representing each file in the zip archive.
- **`member.filename`**: Accesses the filename (including path) for each file.

### 6. Checking if a File Exists in a Zip

```python
import zipfile

def check_file_in_zip(zip_filename, file_name):
    # Open an existing zip file in read mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r') as myzip:
        # Check if the file exists in the zip archive
        return file_name in {member.filename for member in myzip.infolist()}

# Usage
print(check_file_in_zip('example.zip', 'file1.txt'))
```

**Explanation:**
- **`{member.filename for member in myzip.infolist()}`**: Creates a set of filenames from the `ZipInfo` objects, allowing for efficient membership testing.

### 7. Handling Zip Files with Passwords

```python
import zipfile

def open_password_protected_zip(zip_filename, password):
    # Open an existing zip file that requires a password in read mode
    try:
        with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r', allowZipFilePassword) as myzip:
            # Extract all files from the zip archive using the provided password
            myzip.extractall()
    except RuntimeError as e:
        print(f"Failed to open zip file: {e}")

# Usage
open_password_protected_zip('protected_example.zip', 'yourpassword')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r', allowZipFilePassword)`**: Opens a zip file that requires a password. You need to import `allowZipFilePassword` from `py7zr` for this to work.
- **`myzip.extractall()`**: Extracts all files from the zip archive using the provided password.

These examples cover a range of functionalities available in the `zipfile` module, demonstrating how to create, read, and manipulate zip files in Python.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Data Compression and Archiving/zipfile - Work with ZIP archives.md, after:

# zipfile - Work with ZIP archives
## Table of Contents

1. [1. Creating and Writing to a Zip File](#1-creating-and-writing-to-a-zip-file)
2. [2. Reading from a Zip File](#2-reading-from-a-zip-file)
3. [3. Adding Files Directly from a Directory](#3-adding-files-directly-from-a-directory)
4. [4. Extracting Specific Files](#4-extracting-specific-files)
5. [5. Listing All Files in a Zip File](#5-listing-all-files-in-a-zip-file)
6. [6. Checking if a File Exists in a Zip](#6-checking-if-a-file-exists-in-a-zip)
7. [7. Handling Zip Files with Passwords](#7-handling-zip-files-with-passwords)



Certainly! Below are comprehensive examples demonstrating various functionalities of the `zipfile` module in Python, along with explanations for each step:

### 1. Creating and Writing to a Zip File

```python
import zipfile

def create_zip_file(filename):
    # Create a new zip file in write mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(filename, 'w') as myzip:
        # Add files to the zip archive
        myzip.write('file1.txt', compress_type=zipfile.ZIP_DEFLATED)
        myzip.write('file2.txt', compress_type=zipfile.ZIP_DEFLATED)

# Usage
create_zip_file('example.zip')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`zipfile.ZipFile(filename, 'w')`**: Opens a new zip file for writing. The `'w'` mode creates a new zip file or overwrites an existing one.
- **`myzip.write(file_path, compress_type=zipfile.ZIP_DEFLATED)`**: Adds the specified file to the zip archive. You can choose different compression methods like `ZIP_STORED`, `ZIP_DEFLATED`, etc.

### 2. Reading from a Zip File

```python
import zipfile

def read_from_zip_file(filename):
    # Open an existing zip file in read mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(filename, 'r') as myzip:
        # Extract all files to the current directory
        myzip.extractall()

# Usage
read_from_zip_file('example.zip')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`zipfile.ZipFile(filename, 'r')`**: Opens an existing zip file for reading.
- **`myzip.extractall()`**: Extracts all contents of the zip archive to the directory where the script is run.

### 3. Adding Files Directly from a Directory

```python
import zipfile

def add_files_from_directory(source_dir, destination_zip):
    # Open an existing zip file in append mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(destination_zip, 'a') as myzip:
        # Walk through the source directory and add all files
        for root, dirs, files in os.walk(source_dir):
            for file in files:
                file_path = os.path.join(root, file)
                myzip.write(file_path, os.path.relpath(file_path, source_dir))

# Usage
add_files_from_directory('source_directory', 'example.zip')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`zipfile.ZipFile(destination_zip, 'a')`**: Opens an existing zip file for appending new files.
- **`os.walk(source_dir)`**: Walks through the specified directory and its subdirectories, yielding directories (root) and filenames (files).
- **`myzip.write(file_path, os.path.relpath(file_path, source_dir))`**: Adds each file to the zip archive using a relative path to ensure correct extraction.

### 4. Extracting Specific Files

```python
import zipfile

def extract_specific_files(zip_filename, files_to_extract):
    # Open an existing zip file in read mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r') as myzip:
        # Extract specific files from the zip archive
        for file in files_to_extract:
            myzip.extract(file)

# Usage
extract_specific_files('example.zip', ['file1.txt'])
```

**Explanation:**
- **`myzip.extract(file)`**: Extracts a single file from the zip archive. You can specify which file to extract using its path within the zip.

### 5. Listing All Files in a Zip File

```python
import zipfile

def list_files_in_zip(zip_filename):
    # Open an existing zip file in read mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r') as myzip:
        # List all files in the zip archive
        for member in myzip.infolist():
            print(member.filename)

# Usage
list_files_in_zip('example.zip')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`myzip.infolist()`**: Returns a list of `ZipInfo` objects representing each file in the zip archive.
- **`member.filename`**: Accesses the filename (including path) for each file.

### 6. Checking if a File Exists in a Zip

```python
import zipfile

def check_file_in_zip(zip_filename, file_name):
    # Open an existing zip file in read mode
    with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r') as myzip:
        # Check if the file exists in the zip archive
        return file_name in {member.filename for member in myzip.infolist()}

# Usage
print(check_file_in_zip('example.zip', 'file1.txt'))
```

**Explanation:**
- **`{member.filename for member in myzip.infolist()}`**: Creates a set of filenames from the `ZipInfo` objects, allowing for efficient membership testing.

### 7. Handling Zip Files with Passwords

```python
import zipfile

def open_password_protected_zip(zip_filename, password):
    # Open an existing zip file that requires a password in read mode
    try:
        with zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r', allowZipFilePassword) as myzip:
            # Extract all files from the zip archive using the provided password
            myzip.extractall()
    except RuntimeError as e:
        print(f"Failed to open zip file: {e}")

# Usage
open_password_protected_zip('protected_example.zip', 'yourpassword')
```

**Explanation:**
- **`zipfile.ZipFile(zip_filename, 'r', allowZipFilePassword)`**: Opens a zip file that requires a password. You need to import `allowZipFilePassword` from `py7zr` for this to work.
- **`myzip.extractall()`**: Extracts all files from the zip archive using the provided password.

These examples cover a range of functionalities available in the `zipfile` module, demonstrating how to create, read, and manipulate zip files in Python.
