standard_library_documents/Text Processing Services/rlcompleter - Completion function for GNU readline.md, before:

# rlcompleter - Completion function for GNU readline

The `rlcompleter` module in Python provides a way to enable completion features for interactive shell sessions using the GNU Readline library. This can be particularly useful for enhancing productivity by providing auto-completion as you type commands or variable names.

Below are comprehensive code examples demonstrating various functionalities of the `rlcompleter` module:

### 1. Basic Completion

First, ensure that the GNU Readline library is installed on your system. You can install it using your package manager (e.g., `apt-get install libreadline-dev` for Ubuntu).

Here's a basic example of how to use `rlcompleter` in a Python script:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

# Set the completer function to use rlcompleter
readline.set_completer(rlcompleter.Completer().complete)

# Enable auto-completion
readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

# Example usage of the completer
def example_usage():
    print("Type a string and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            print(f"You entered: {input_string}")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 2. Custom Completion Function

You can also create a custom completion function by subclassing `rlcompleter.Completer` and overriding the `_complete` method.

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

class CustomCompleter(rlcompleter.Completer):
    def complete(self, text, state):
        # Define your own completion logic here
        matches = [item for item in dir() if item.startswith(text)]
        return matches[state] if 0 <= state < len(matches) else None

# Set the custom completer function to use rlcompleter
readline.set_completer(CustomCompleter().complete)

# Enable auto-completion
readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

# Example usage of the custom completer
def example_usage():
    print("Type a string and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            print(f"You entered: {input_string}")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 3. Completion for Custom Objects

If you have custom objects and want to provide completion for them, you can override the `_complete` method again:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

class MyClass:
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name

class InstanceCompleter(rlcompleter.Completer):
    def complete(self, text, state):
        if state == 0:
            # Retrieve all MyClass instance names starting with 'text'
            self.matches = [name for name, obj in globals().items() if isinstance(obj, MyClass) and name.startswith(text)]
        try:
            return self.matches[state]
        except IndexError:
            return None

def example_usage():
    obj1 = MyClass("Object 1")
    obj2 = MyClass("Object 2")

    # Set up completion for instances of MyClass
    class_instance_completer = InstanceCompleter()
    readline.set_completer(class_instance_completer.complete)

    # Enable auto-completion
    readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

    print("Type 'obj' and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            obj = eval(input_string)
            if isinstance(obj, MyClass):
                print(f"You selected: {obj.name}")
            else:
                print("Invalid object")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 4. Using `readline.parse_and_bind` for Advanced Bindings

You can use `readline.parse_and_bind` to bind custom key bindings, such as a command to execute a specific function:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

# Set the completer function to use rlcompleter
readline.set_completer(rlcompleter.Completer().complete)

# Bind a custom key binding (e.g., Ctrl+X Ctrl+C)
readline.parse_and_bind('Control-X Control-C: exit')

def example_usage():
    print("Type 'exit' and press Ctrl+X Ctrl+C to quit.")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            print(f"You entered: {input_string}")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 5. Completion for Specific Modules or Libraries

If you want to limit the completion to specific modules or libraries, you can override the `_complete` method to filter based on module contents:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

class ModuleCompleter(rlcompleter.Completer):
    def complete(self, text, state):
        # Initialize custom_blacklist
        if not hasattr(self, 'custom_blacklist'):
            self.custom_blacklist = []
        # Define your own completion logic here
        matches = [item for item in dir(__builtins__) if item.startswith(text) and item not in self.custom_blacklist]
        return matches[state] if 0 <= state < len(matches) else None

# Set the custom completer function to use rlcompleter
readline.set_completer(ModuleCompleter().complete)

# Enable auto-completion
readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

# Example usage of the module-specific completer
def example_usage():
    print("Type 'math.' and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            obj = eval(input_string)
            if isinstance(obj, (int, float)):
                print(f"You selected: {obj}")
            else:
                print("Invalid object")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 6. Using `readline.set_completer_delims` to Customize Delimiters

You can customize the delimiters used by `rlcompleter` to affect how completion works:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

# Set the completer function to use rlcompleter
completer = rlcompleter.Completer()
readline.set_completer(completer.complete)

# Customize delimiters
readline.set_completer_delims(' \t\n;:')

# Enable auto-completion
readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

# Example usage of custom delimiters
def example_usage():
    print("Type a string and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            print(f"You entered: {input_string}")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

These examples demonstrate how to use the `rlcompleter` module to enhance the interactive shell experience by providing auto-completion. Each example includes comments explaining key steps and functionalities, making it easy to understand and integrate into your own scripts.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Text Processing Services/rlcompleter - Completion function for GNU readline.md, after:

# rlcompleter - Completion function for GNU readline
## Table of Contents

1. [1. Basic Completion](#1-basic-completion)
2. [2. Custom Completion Function](#2-custom-completion-function)
3. [3. Completion for Custom Objects](#3-completion-for-custom-objects)
4. [4. Using `readline.parse_and_bind` for Advanced Bindings](#4-using-readlineparse_and_bind-for-advanced-bindings)
5. [5. Completion for Specific Modules or Libraries](#5-completion-for-specific-modules-or-libraries)
6. [6. Using `readline.set_completer_delims` to Customize Delimiters](#6-using-readlineset_completer_delims-to-customize-delimiters)



The `rlcompleter` module in Python provides a way to enable completion features for interactive shell sessions using the GNU Readline library. This can be particularly useful for enhancing productivity by providing auto-completion as you type commands or variable names.

Below are comprehensive code examples demonstrating various functionalities of the `rlcompleter` module:

### 1. Basic Completion

First, ensure that the GNU Readline library is installed on your system. You can install it using your package manager (e.g., `apt-get install libreadline-dev` for Ubuntu).

Here's a basic example of how to use `rlcompleter` in a Python script:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

# Set the completer function to use rlcompleter
readline.set_completer(rlcompleter.Completer().complete)

# Enable auto-completion
readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

# Example usage of the completer
def example_usage():
    print("Type a string and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            print(f"You entered: {input_string}")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 2. Custom Completion Function

You can also create a custom completion function by subclassing `rlcompleter.Completer` and overriding the `_complete` method.

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

class CustomCompleter(rlcompleter.Completer):
    def complete(self, text, state):
        # Define your own completion logic here
        matches = [item for item in dir() if item.startswith(text)]
        return matches[state] if 0 <= state < len(matches) else None

# Set the custom completer function to use rlcompleter
readline.set_completer(CustomCompleter().complete)

# Enable auto-completion
readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

# Example usage of the custom completer
def example_usage():
    print("Type a string and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            print(f"You entered: {input_string}")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 3. Completion for Custom Objects

If you have custom objects and want to provide completion for them, you can override the `_complete` method again:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

class MyClass:
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name

class InstanceCompleter(rlcompleter.Completer):
    def complete(self, text, state):
        if state == 0:
            # Retrieve all MyClass instance names starting with 'text'
            self.matches = [name for name, obj in globals().items() if isinstance(obj, MyClass) and name.startswith(text)]
        try:
            return self.matches[state]
        except IndexError:
            return None

def example_usage():
    obj1 = MyClass("Object 1")
    obj2 = MyClass("Object 2")

    # Set up completion for instances of MyClass
    class_instance_completer = InstanceCompleter()
    readline.set_completer(class_instance_completer.complete)

    # Enable auto-completion
    readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

    print("Type 'obj' and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            obj = eval(input_string)
            if isinstance(obj, MyClass):
                print(f"You selected: {obj.name}")
            else:
                print("Invalid object")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 4. Using `readline.parse_and_bind` for Advanced Bindings

You can use `readline.parse_and_bind` to bind custom key bindings, such as a command to execute a specific function:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

# Set the completer function to use rlcompleter
readline.set_completer(rlcompleter.Completer().complete)

# Bind a custom key binding (e.g., Ctrl+X Ctrl+C)
readline.parse_and_bind('Control-X Control-C: exit')

def example_usage():
    print("Type 'exit' and press Ctrl+X Ctrl+C to quit.")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            print(f"You entered: {input_string}")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 5. Completion for Specific Modules or Libraries

If you want to limit the completion to specific modules or libraries, you can override the `_complete` method to filter based on module contents:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

class ModuleCompleter(rlcompleter.Completer):
    def complete(self, text, state):
        # Initialize custom_blacklist
        if not hasattr(self, 'custom_blacklist'):
            self.custom_blacklist = []
        # Define your own completion logic here
        matches = [item for item in dir(__builtins__) if item.startswith(text) and item not in self.custom_blacklist]
        return matches[state] if 0 <= state < len(matches) else None

# Set the custom completer function to use rlcompleter
readline.set_completer(ModuleCompleter().complete)

# Enable auto-completion
readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

# Example usage of the module-specific completer
def example_usage():
    print("Type 'math.' and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            obj = eval(input_string)
            if isinstance(obj, (int, float)):
                print(f"You selected: {obj}")
            else:
                print("Invalid object")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

### 6. Using `readline.set_completer_delims` to Customize Delimiters

You can customize the delimiters used by `rlcompleter` to affect how completion works:

```python
import readline
import rlcompleter

# Set the completer function to use rlcompleter
completer = rlcompleter.Completer()
readline.set_completer(completer.complete)

# Customize delimiters
readline.set_completer_delims(' \t\n;:')

# Enable auto-completion
readline.parse_and_bind('tab: complete')

# Example usage of custom delimiters
def example_usage():
    print("Type a string and press 'Tab' for completion:")
    while True:
        try:
            input_string = input()
            print(f"You entered: {input_string}")
        except EOFError:
            print("\nExiting...")
            break

if __name__ == "__main__":
    example_usage()
```

These examples demonstrate how to use the `rlcompleter` module to enhance the interactive shell experience by providing auto-completion. Each example includes comments explaining key steps and functionalities, making it easy to understand and integrate into your own scripts.
