standard_library_documents/Networking and Interprocess Communication/select - Waiting for I O completion.md, before:

# select - Waiting for I/O completion

The `select` module in Python is used to monitor multiple file descriptors (like sockets, pipes, etc.) for read or write operations, allowing an application to wait until one or more of them are ready for I/O. This is particularly useful in network programming where you need to handle multiple connections simultaneously.

Here's a comprehensive guide and examples for using the `select` module in Python:

### 1. Basic Usage

#### Example: Monitoring Multiple Sockets for Read Operations

```python
import select
import socket

def monitor_sockets(sockets):
    # Create a list of read-ready sockets
    readable, _, _ = select.select(sockets, [], [])
    
    for sock in readable:
        data = sock.recv(1024)
        if not data:
            print(f"Connection closed by {sock.getpeername()}")
            sock.close()
        else:
            print(f"Received data from {sock.getpeername()}: {data.decode()}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a list of sockets to monitor
    sockets = [
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM),
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    ]
    
    for sock in sockets:
        sock.setblocking(False)  # Set non-blocking mode
        sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))  # Connect to a server
    
    while True:
        monitor_sockets(sockets)
```

### 2. Handling Write Operations

#### Example: Monitoring Multiple Sockets for Write Operations

```python
import select
import socket
import threading

def write_to_socket(sock, data):
    sock.sendall(data.encode())
    print(f"Sent {data} to {sock.getpeername()}")

def monitor_sockets(sockets):
    # Create a list of write-ready sockets and their associated data
    writable, _, _ = select.select([], sockets, [])
    
    for sock in writable:
        data = f"Message from {threading.current_thread().name}"
        write_to_socket(sock, data)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a list of sockets to monitor
    sockets = [
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM),
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    ]
    
    for sock in sockets:
        sock.setblocking(False)  # Set non-blocking mode
        sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))  # Connect to a server
    
    # Start a thread to send data to each socket periodically
    threads = []
    for i, sock in enumerate(sockets):
        t = threading.Thread(target=write_to_socket, args=(sock, f"Thread {i}"))
        threads.append(t)
        t.start()
    
    while True:
        monitor_sockets(sockets)
```

### 3. Monitoring Multiple File Descriptors

#### Example: Using `select` with Files and Sockets

```python
import select
import socket
import time

def read_from_file(file, timeout=5):
    print(f"Reading from {file.name}")
    try:
        data = file.read(1024)
        if not data:
            print("File is closed")
        else:
            print(f"Read: {data.decode()}")
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error reading from file: {e}")

def monitor_file(file, sockets):
    readable, _, _ = select.select([file], [], [])
    
    if file in readable:
        read_from_file(file)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a socket and connect to it
    sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))
    
    # Open a file for reading
    with open('example.txt', 'r') as file:
        while True:
            monitor_file(file, [sock])
            time.sleep(1)
```

### 4. Monitoring Multiple File Descriptors with Non-blocking I/O

#### Example: Using `select` with Pipes and Sockets in Non-blocking Mode

```python
import select
import os
import socket
import threading

def read_from_pipe(pipe):
    try:
        data = os.read(pipe, 1024)
        if not data:
            print("Pipe closed")
        else:
            print(f"Read: {data.decode()}")
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error reading from pipe: {e}")

def monitor_pipes(pipes, sockets):
    readable, _, _ = select.select([], pipes, [])
    
    for pipe in readable:
        read_from_pipe(pipe)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a socket and connect to it
    sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))
    
    # Create pipes for communication between threads
    pipe_read, pipe_write = os.pipe()
    
    def write_to_pipe(pipe):
        try:
            data = b"Message from thread"
            os.write(pipe, data)
        except Exception as e:
            print(f"Error writing to pipe: {e}")
    
    # Start a thread to write to the pipe
    t = threading.Thread(target=write_to_pipe, args=(pipe_write,))
    t.start()
    
    while True:
        monitor_pipes([pipe_read], [sock])
```

### 5. Using `select` with Timeout

#### Example: Monitoring Sockets with a Timeout

```python
import select
import socket
import time

def read_from_socket(sock, timeout=10):
    try:
        data = sock.recv(1024)
        if not data:
            print("Connection closed")
        else:
            print(f"Received data: {data.decode()}")
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error reading from socket: {e}")

def monitor_sockets(sockets, timeout):
    # Create a list of read-ready sockets
    readable, _, _ = select.select(sockets, [], [], timeout)
    
    for sock in readable:
        read_from_socket(sock)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a list of sockets to monitor
    sockets = [
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM),
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    ]
    
    for sock in sockets:
        sock.setblocking(False)  # Set non-blocking mode
        sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))  # Connect to a server
    
    while True:
        monitor_sockets(sockets, 10)
```

### Conclusion

The `select` module is a powerful tool for I/O multiplexing in Python. It allows you to efficiently manage multiple file descriptors, which is particularly useful in scenarios where your application needs to handle multiple connections or other resources concurrently. The examples provided demonstrate how to use `select` with sockets, files, and pipes, along with handling non-blocking I/O and timeouts.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Networking and Interprocess Communication/select - Waiting for I O completion.md, after:

# select - Waiting for I/O completion
## Table of Contents

1. [1. Basic Usage](#1-basic-usage)
2. [Example: Monitoring Multiple Sockets for Read Operations](#example-monitoring-multiple-sockets-for-read-operations)
3. [2. Handling Write Operations](#2-handling-write-operations)
4. [Example: Monitoring Multiple Sockets for Write Operations](#example-monitoring-multiple-sockets-for-write-operations)
5. [3. Monitoring Multiple File Descriptors](#3-monitoring-multiple-file-descriptors)
6. [Example: Using `select` with Files and Sockets](#example-using-select-with-files-and-sockets)
7. [4. Monitoring Multiple File Descriptors with Non-blocking I/O](#4-monitoring-multiple-file-descriptors-with-non-blocking-io)
8. [Example: Using `select` with Pipes and Sockets in Non-blocking Mode](#example-using-select-with-pipes-and-sockets-in-non-blocking-mode)
9. [5. Using `select` with Timeout](#5-using-select-with-timeout)
10. [Example: Monitoring Sockets with a Timeout](#example-monitoring-sockets-with-a-timeout)



The `select` module in Python is used to monitor multiple file descriptors (like sockets, pipes, etc.) for read or write operations, allowing an application to wait until one or more of them are ready for I/O. This is particularly useful in network programming where you need to handle multiple connections simultaneously.

Here's a comprehensive guide and examples for using the `select` module in Python:

### 1. Basic Usage

#### Example: Monitoring Multiple Sockets for Read Operations

```python
import select
import socket

def monitor_sockets(sockets):
    # Create a list of read-ready sockets
    readable, _, _ = select.select(sockets, [], [])
    
    for sock in readable:
        data = sock.recv(1024)
        if not data:
            print(f"Connection closed by {sock.getpeername()}")
            sock.close()
        else:
            print(f"Received data from {sock.getpeername()}: {data.decode()}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a list of sockets to monitor
    sockets = [
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM),
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    ]
    
    for sock in sockets:
        sock.setblocking(False)  # Set non-blocking mode
        sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))  # Connect to a server
    
    while True:
        monitor_sockets(sockets)
```

### 2. Handling Write Operations

#### Example: Monitoring Multiple Sockets for Write Operations

```python
import select
import socket
import threading

def write_to_socket(sock, data):
    sock.sendall(data.encode())
    print(f"Sent {data} to {sock.getpeername()}")

def monitor_sockets(sockets):
    # Create a list of write-ready sockets and their associated data
    writable, _, _ = select.select([], sockets, [])
    
    for sock in writable:
        data = f"Message from {threading.current_thread().name}"
        write_to_socket(sock, data)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a list of sockets to monitor
    sockets = [
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM),
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    ]
    
    for sock in sockets:
        sock.setblocking(False)  # Set non-blocking mode
        sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))  # Connect to a server
    
    # Start a thread to send data to each socket periodically
    threads = []
    for i, sock in enumerate(sockets):
        t = threading.Thread(target=write_to_socket, args=(sock, f"Thread {i}"))
        threads.append(t)
        t.start()
    
    while True:
        monitor_sockets(sockets)
```

### 3. Monitoring Multiple File Descriptors

#### Example: Using `select` with Files and Sockets

```python
import select
import socket
import time

def read_from_file(file, timeout=5):
    print(f"Reading from {file.name}")
    try:
        data = file.read(1024)
        if not data:
            print("File is closed")
        else:
            print(f"Read: {data.decode()}")
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error reading from file: {e}")

def monitor_file(file, sockets):
    readable, _, _ = select.select([file], [], [])
    
    if file in readable:
        read_from_file(file)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a socket and connect to it
    sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))
    
    # Open a file for reading
    with open('example.txt', 'r') as file:
        while True:
            monitor_file(file, [sock])
            time.sleep(1)
```

### 4. Monitoring Multiple File Descriptors with Non-blocking I/O

#### Example: Using `select` with Pipes and Sockets in Non-blocking Mode

```python
import select
import os
import socket
import threading

def read_from_pipe(pipe):
    try:
        data = os.read(pipe, 1024)
        if not data:
            print("Pipe closed")
        else:
            print(f"Read: {data.decode()}")
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error reading from pipe: {e}")

def monitor_pipes(pipes, sockets):
    readable, _, _ = select.select([], pipes, [])
    
    for pipe in readable:
        read_from_pipe(pipe)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a socket and connect to it
    sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))
    
    # Create pipes for communication between threads
    pipe_read, pipe_write = os.pipe()
    
    def write_to_pipe(pipe):
        try:
            data = b"Message from thread"
            os.write(pipe, data)
        except Exception as e:
            print(f"Error writing to pipe: {e}")
    
    # Start a thread to write to the pipe
    t = threading.Thread(target=write_to_pipe, args=(pipe_write,))
    t.start()
    
    while True:
        monitor_pipes([pipe_read], [sock])
```

### 5. Using `select` with Timeout

#### Example: Monitoring Sockets with a Timeout

```python
import select
import socket
import time

def read_from_socket(sock, timeout=10):
    try:
        data = sock.recv(1024)
        if not data:
            print("Connection closed")
        else:
            print(f"Received data: {data.decode()}")
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error reading from socket: {e}")

def monitor_sockets(sockets, timeout):
    # Create a list of read-ready sockets
    readable, _, _ = select.select(sockets, [], [], timeout)
    
    for sock in readable:
        read_from_socket(sock)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Create a list of sockets to monitor
    sockets = [
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM),
        socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    ]
    
    for sock in sockets:
        sock.setblocking(False)  # Set non-blocking mode
        sock.connect_ex(('localhost', 12345))  # Connect to a server
    
    while True:
        monitor_sockets(sockets, 10)
```

### Conclusion

The `select` module is a powerful tool for I/O multiplexing in Python. It allows you to efficiently manage multiple file descriptors, which is particularly useful in scenarios where your application needs to handle multiple connections or other resources concurrently. The examples provided demonstrate how to use `select` with sockets, files, and pipes, along with handling non-blocking I/O and timeouts.
