standard_library_documents/Python Runtime Services/contextlib - Utilities for with-statement contexts.md, before:

# contextlib - Utilities for with-statement contexts

The `contextlib` module in Python provides utilities for managing resources, especially those that need to be set up before a block of code is executed and cleaned up afterward. It offers several classes and functions designed to simplify common tasks like handling temporary files, database connections, and more. Below are comprehensive examples of how to use each of the main classes and functions in the `contextlib` module.

### 1. Context Managers

Context managers allow you to define a block of code that should be executed within a specific context, such as opening and closing a file, connecting to a database, or ensuring resources are freed correctly.

#### Example 1: Using `with` Statement with `open()`

```python
import contextlib

# Use the 'with' statement to manage file operations
with open('example.txt', 'w') as f:
    # Write some text to the file
    f.write("Hello, context manager!")
```

#### Explanation:

- **Importing**: The `contextlib` module is imported at the beginning.
- **Using `with` Statement**: The `with` statement ensures that the file is properly closed after its suite finishes, even if an exception is raised on the way. This prevents resource leaks and ensures that the file handle is released.
- **File Operations**: The file is opened in write mode (`'w'`) and written to.

### 2. `contextlib.nested()`

The `nested()` function allows multiple context managers to be used simultaneously within a single block.

#### Example 2: Using `nested()` with `open()` and `sqlite3.connect()`

```python
import contextlib
import sqlite3

# Use nested contexts for multiple operations
with contextlib.nested(open('example.txt', 'w'), sqlite3.connect(':memory:')) as (f, conn):
    f.write("Hello from file and database!")
    cursor = conn.cursor()
    cursor.execute("CREATE TABLE example_table (id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, value TEXT)")
    cursor.execute("INSERT INTO example_table (value) VALUES ('Test')")
```

#### Explanation:

- **Multiple Context Managers**: The `nested()` function is used to manage both the file writing and database connection.
- **File Operations**: The file is opened in write mode as before.
- **Database Operations**: A SQLite connection is established, a cursor created, and a simple table and record are inserted.

### 3. `contextlib.ExitStack`

`ExitStack` allows multiple contexts to be pushed onto it, which are then closed in the order they were pushed. This is useful for managing resources that need to be cleaned up in a specific order.

#### Example 3: Using `ExitStack` with `open()` and closing them in reverse order

```python
import contextlib
import sqlite3

# Use ExitStack for managing multiple resources
with contextlib.ExitStack() as stack:
    f = stack.enter_context(open('example.txt', 'w'))
    conn = stack.enter_context(sqlite3.connect(':memory:'))
    
    # File and database operations
    f.write("Hello from file and database!")
    cursor = conn.cursor()
    cursor.execute("CREATE TABLE example_table (id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, value TEXT)")
    cursor.execute("INSERT INTO example_table (value) VALUES ('Test')")
    
    # Close resources in reverse order
    stack.pop_all()
```

#### Explanation:

- **ExitStack**: An `ExitStack` is created to manage multiple contexts.
- **Entering Contexts**: Both the file and database connection are entered onto the stack using `enter_context()`.
- **Closing Resources**: The `pop_all()` method ensures that resources are closed in the reverse order of their entry, which can be useful for managing resources that have dependencies on each other.

### 4. `contextlib.suppress()`

`suppress()` is used to suppress specific exceptions during execution. This is particularly useful when you want to ignore certain errors without changing the code's flow.

#### Example 4: Using `suppress()` with `os.remove()`

```python
import contextlib
import os

# Use suppress to handle missing file exception
with contextlib.suppress(FileNotFoundError):
    os.remove('nonexistent_file.txt')
```

#### Explanation:

- **Handling Missing File**: The `suppress()` function is used to ignore the `FileNotFoundError` when trying to remove a non-existent file.
- **Simplified Error Handling**: This makes the code cleaner and less error-prone by handling specific exceptions directly.

### 5. `contextlib.redirect_stdout`

`redirect_stdout` redirects the standard output of a block of code to a specified stream, allowing you to capture and manipulate it easily.

#### Example 5: Using `redirect_stdout` to capture console output

```python
import contextlib
import sys

# Use redirect_stdout to capture console output
with contextlib.redirect_stdout(sys.stderr):
    print("This will be printed to stderr")

with contextlib.redirect_stdout(open('output.txt', 'w')):
    print("This will be written to file output.txt")
```

#### Explanation:

- **Capturing Console Output**: The `redirect_stdout` function is used to redirect the standard output to either a file or another stream.
- **Output Management**: This is useful for logging, testing, and other scenarios where you need to capture console output.

### 6. `contextlib.redirect_stderr`

Similar to `redirect_stdout`, `redirect_stderr` redirects the standard error of a block of code to a specified stream, allowing you to capture and manipulate it easily.

#### Example 6: Using `redirect_stderr` to capture console error

```python
import contextlib
import sys

# Use redirect_stderr to capture console error
with contextlib.redirect_stderr(sys.stdout):
    print("This will be printed to stdout")

with contextlib.redirect_stderr(open('error.txt', 'w')):
    print("This will be written to file error.txt")
```

#### Explanation:

- **Capturing Console Error**: The `redirect_stderr` function is used to redirect the standard error to either a file or another stream.
- **Error Management**: This is useful for logging, testing, and other scenarios where you need to capture console errors.

### 7. `contextlib.redirect_stdout`

A simple example of using `redirect_stdout` to capture console output from a function.

```python
import contextlib
import sys

def my_function():
    print("This is the output")

# Capture console output using redirect_stdout
with contextlib.redirect_stdout(sys.stderr):
    my_function()
```

#### Explanation:

- **Function Output**: The `my_function` prints a message to the standard output.
- **Capturing Output**: Using `redirect_stdout`, we capture this output and print it to stderr, which can be useful for logging or debugging.

### 8. `contextlib.suppress()`

A simple example of using `suppress()` to handle exceptions within a function.

```python
import contextlib

def risky_function():
    try:
        1 / 0
    except ZeroDivisionError as e:
        print(f"Caught an error: {e}")

# Suppressing division by zero exception
with contextlib.suppress(ZeroDivisionError):
    risky_function()
```

#### Explanation:

- **Function with Exception**: The `risky_function` attempts to divide by zero, which raises a `ZeroDivisionError`.
- **Suppressing Exception**: Using `suppress()`, we suppress the `ZeroDivisionError`, allowing the function to continue without crashing.

### 9. `contextlib.suppress()`

A simple example of using `suppress()` to handle exceptions within a function and logging them.

```python
import contextlib
import logging

def risky_function():
    try:
        1 / 0
    except Exception as e:
        logging.error(f"Caught an error: {e}")

# Suppressing all exceptions and logging errors
with contextlib.suppress(Exception):
    risky_function()
```

#### Explanation:

- **Function with Multiple Exceptions**: The `risky_function` attempts to divide by zero, which raises a `ZeroDivisionError`.
- **Suppressing All Exceptions**: Using `suppress()`, we suppress all exceptions, allowing the function to continue without crashing. Instead, any caught exception is logged using Python's logging module.

### 10. `contextlib.suppress()`

A simple example of using `suppress()` to handle multiple specific exceptions within a function.

```python
import contextlib

def risky_function():
    try:
        1 / 0
    except ZeroDivisionError as e:
        print(f"Caught an error: {e}")
    except TypeError as e:
        print(f"Caught another error: {e}")

# Suppressing specific exceptions
with contextlib.suppress(ZeroDivisionError, TypeError):
    risky_function()
```

#### Explanation:

- **Function with Multiple Exceptions**: The `risky_function` attempts to divide by zero and performs an invalid operation.
- **Suppressing Specific Exceptions**: Using `suppress()`, we suppress only the `ZeroDivisionError` and `TypeError`, allowing the function to continue without crashing for these specific exceptions.

These examples demonstrate how to use various features provided by the `contextlib` module to manage resources, capture and handle output and errors, and simplify the management of context in Python.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Python Runtime Services/contextlib - Utilities for with-statement contexts.md, after:

# contextlib - Utilities for with-statement contexts
## Table of Contents

1. [1. Context Managers](#1-context-managers)
2. [Example 1: Using `with` Statement with `open()`](#example-1-using-with-statement-with-open)
3. [Explanation:](#explanation)
4. [2. `contextlib.nested()`](#2-contextlibnested)
5. [Example 2: Using `nested()` with `open()` and `sqlite3.connect()`](#example-2-using-nested-with-open-and-sqlite3connect)
6. [Explanation:](#explanation)
7. [3. `contextlib.ExitStack`](#3-contextlibexitstack)
8. [Example 3: Using `ExitStack` with `open()` and closing them in reverse order](#example-3-using-exitstack-with-open-and-closing-them-in-reverse-order)
9. [Explanation:](#explanation)
10. [4. `contextlib.suppress()`](#4-contextlibsuppress)



The `contextlib` module in Python provides utilities for managing resources, especially those that need to be set up before a block of code is executed and cleaned up afterward. It offers several classes and functions designed to simplify common tasks like handling temporary files, database connections, and more. Below are comprehensive examples of how to use each of the main classes and functions in the `contextlib` module.

### 1. Context Managers

Context managers allow you to define a block of code that should be executed within a specific context, such as opening and closing a file, connecting to a database, or ensuring resources are freed correctly.

#### Example 1: Using `with` Statement with `open()`

```python
import contextlib

# Use the 'with' statement to manage file operations
with open('example.txt', 'w') as f:
    # Write some text to the file
    f.write("Hello, context manager!")
```

#### Explanation:

- **Importing**: The `contextlib` module is imported at the beginning.
- **Using `with` Statement**: The `with` statement ensures that the file is properly closed after its suite finishes, even if an exception is raised on the way. This prevents resource leaks and ensures that the file handle is released.
- **File Operations**: The file is opened in write mode (`'w'`) and written to.

### 2. `contextlib.nested()`

The `nested()` function allows multiple context managers to be used simultaneously within a single block.

#### Example 2: Using `nested()` with `open()` and `sqlite3.connect()`

```python
import contextlib
import sqlite3

# Use nested contexts for multiple operations
with contextlib.nested(open('example.txt', 'w'), sqlite3.connect(':memory:')) as (f, conn):
    f.write("Hello from file and database!")
    cursor = conn.cursor()
    cursor.execute("CREATE TABLE example_table (id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, value TEXT)")
    cursor.execute("INSERT INTO example_table (value) VALUES ('Test')")
```

#### Explanation:

- **Multiple Context Managers**: The `nested()` function is used to manage both the file writing and database connection.
- **File Operations**: The file is opened in write mode as before.
- **Database Operations**: A SQLite connection is established, a cursor created, and a simple table and record are inserted.

### 3. `contextlib.ExitStack`

`ExitStack` allows multiple contexts to be pushed onto it, which are then closed in the order they were pushed. This is useful for managing resources that need to be cleaned up in a specific order.

#### Example 3: Using `ExitStack` with `open()` and closing them in reverse order

```python
import contextlib
import sqlite3

# Use ExitStack for managing multiple resources
with contextlib.ExitStack() as stack:
    f = stack.enter_context(open('example.txt', 'w'))
    conn = stack.enter_context(sqlite3.connect(':memory:'))
    
    # File and database operations
    f.write("Hello from file and database!")
    cursor = conn.cursor()
    cursor.execute("CREATE TABLE example_table (id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, value TEXT)")
    cursor.execute("INSERT INTO example_table (value) VALUES ('Test')")
    
    # Close resources in reverse order
    stack.pop_all()
```

#### Explanation:

- **ExitStack**: An `ExitStack` is created to manage multiple contexts.
- **Entering Contexts**: Both the file and database connection are entered onto the stack using `enter_context()`.
- **Closing Resources**: The `pop_all()` method ensures that resources are closed in the reverse order of their entry, which can be useful for managing resources that have dependencies on each other.

### 4. `contextlib.suppress()`

`suppress()` is used to suppress specific exceptions during execution. This is particularly useful when you want to ignore certain errors without changing the code's flow.

#### Example 4: Using `suppress()` with `os.remove()`

```python
import contextlib
import os

# Use suppress to handle missing file exception
with contextlib.suppress(FileNotFoundError):
    os.remove('nonexistent_file.txt')
```

#### Explanation:

- **Handling Missing File**: The `suppress()` function is used to ignore the `FileNotFoundError` when trying to remove a non-existent file.
- **Simplified Error Handling**: This makes the code cleaner and less error-prone by handling specific exceptions directly.

### 5. `contextlib.redirect_stdout`

`redirect_stdout` redirects the standard output of a block of code to a specified stream, allowing you to capture and manipulate it easily.

#### Example 5: Using `redirect_stdout` to capture console output

```python
import contextlib
import sys

# Use redirect_stdout to capture console output
with contextlib.redirect_stdout(sys.stderr):
    print("This will be printed to stderr")

with contextlib.redirect_stdout(open('output.txt', 'w')):
    print("This will be written to file output.txt")
```

#### Explanation:

- **Capturing Console Output**: The `redirect_stdout` function is used to redirect the standard output to either a file or another stream.
- **Output Management**: This is useful for logging, testing, and other scenarios where you need to capture console output.

### 6. `contextlib.redirect_stderr`

Similar to `redirect_stdout`, `redirect_stderr` redirects the standard error of a block of code to a specified stream, allowing you to capture and manipulate it easily.

#### Example 6: Using `redirect_stderr` to capture console error

```python
import contextlib
import sys

# Use redirect_stderr to capture console error
with contextlib.redirect_stderr(sys.stdout):
    print("This will be printed to stdout")

with contextlib.redirect_stderr(open('error.txt', 'w')):
    print("This will be written to file error.txt")
```

#### Explanation:

- **Capturing Console Error**: The `redirect_stderr` function is used to redirect the standard error to either a file or another stream.
- **Error Management**: This is useful for logging, testing, and other scenarios where you need to capture console errors.

### 7. `contextlib.redirect_stdout`

A simple example of using `redirect_stdout` to capture console output from a function.

```python
import contextlib
import sys

def my_function():
    print("This is the output")

# Capture console output using redirect_stdout
with contextlib.redirect_stdout(sys.stderr):
    my_function()
```

#### Explanation:

- **Function Output**: The `my_function` prints a message to the standard output.
- **Capturing Output**: Using `redirect_stdout`, we capture this output and print it to stderr, which can be useful for logging or debugging.

### 8. `contextlib.suppress()`

A simple example of using `suppress()` to handle exceptions within a function.

```python
import contextlib

def risky_function():
    try:
        1 / 0
    except ZeroDivisionError as e:
        print(f"Caught an error: {e}")

# Suppressing division by zero exception
with contextlib.suppress(ZeroDivisionError):
    risky_function()
```

#### Explanation:

- **Function with Exception**: The `risky_function` attempts to divide by zero, which raises a `ZeroDivisionError`.
- **Suppressing Exception**: Using `suppress()`, we suppress the `ZeroDivisionError`, allowing the function to continue without crashing.

### 9. `contextlib.suppress()`

A simple example of using `suppress()` to handle exceptions within a function and logging them.

```python
import contextlib
import logging

def risky_function():
    try:
        1 / 0
    except Exception as e:
        logging.error(f"Caught an error: {e}")

# Suppressing all exceptions and logging errors
with contextlib.suppress(Exception):
    risky_function()
```

#### Explanation:

- **Function with Multiple Exceptions**: The `risky_function` attempts to divide by zero, which raises a `ZeroDivisionError`.
- **Suppressing All Exceptions**: Using `suppress()`, we suppress all exceptions, allowing the function to continue without crashing. Instead, any caught exception is logged using Python's logging module.

### 10. `contextlib.suppress()`

A simple example of using `suppress()` to handle multiple specific exceptions within a function.

```python
import contextlib

def risky_function():
    try:
        1 / 0
    except ZeroDivisionError as e:
        print(f"Caught an error: {e}")
    except TypeError as e:
        print(f"Caught another error: {e}")

# Suppressing specific exceptions
with contextlib.suppress(ZeroDivisionError, TypeError):
    risky_function()
```

#### Explanation:

- **Function with Multiple Exceptions**: The `risky_function` attempts to divide by zero and performs an invalid operation.
- **Suppressing Specific Exceptions**: Using `suppress()`, we suppress only the `ZeroDivisionError` and `TypeError`, allowing the function to continue without crashing for these specific exceptions.

These examples demonstrate how to use various features provided by the `contextlib` module to manage resources, capture and handle output and errors, and simplify the management of context in Python.
