standard_library_documents/Python Runtime Services/sysconfig - Provide access to Python s configuration information.md, before:

# sysconfig - Provide access to Python’s configuration information

The `sysconfig` module in Python provides access to Python's configuration settings, including paths to various directories such as the site-packages directory, the interpreter executable, and more. This module is particularly useful for developers who need to understand or modify the Python environment at runtime.

Below are comprehensive code examples that cover various functionalities provided by the `sysconfig` module:

```python
import sysconfig

# Example 1: Get the path to the site-packages directory
site_packages_path = sysconfig.get_python_lib()
print("Path to the site-packages directory:", site_packages_path)

# Example 2: Determine the Python executable used for a specific interpreter
executable_path = sysconfig.get_executable()
print("Python executable path:", executable_path)

# Example 3: Get the configuration variables as a dictionary
config_vars = sysconfig.get_config_vars()
for key, value in config_vars.items():
    print(f"{key}: {value}")

# Example 4: Check if a specific platform is supported by Python
is_platform_supported = sysconfig.is_python_platform('Linux')
print("Is 'Linux' a supported platform?", is_platform_supported)

# Example 5: Get the path to a specific file in the site-packages directory
site_packages_file_path = sysconfig.get_path('py_modules', module_name='example_module')
if site_packages_file_path:
    print(f"Path to 'example_module.py': {site_packages_file_path}")
else:
    print("Module not found in site-packages.")

# Example 6: Get the build environment variables
build_vars = sysconfig.get_build_info()
print("Build environment information:", build_vars)

# Example 7: Check if a specific file exists in the Python installation directory
file_in_python_dir = sysconfig.find_executable('python')
if file_in_python_dir:
    print(f"Python executable found at {file_in_python_dir}")
else:
    print("Python executable not found.")

# Example 8: Get the platform-specific configuration variables
platform_config_vars = sysconfig.get_platform()
print("Platform-specific configuration:", platform_config_vars)

# Example 9: Get the full path to a specific resource in the Python installation directory
resource_path = sysconfig.get_resources_path('site-packages')
if resource_path:
    print(f"Path to site-packages resources: {resource_path}")
else:
    print("Resource not found.")

# Example 10: Check if the interpreter is running from a source distribution
is_from_source_dist = sysconfig.is_python_build()
print("Is the interpreter running from a source distribution?", is_from_source_dist)

# Example 11: Get the path to a specific file in a site-packages directory for a given interpreter
interpreter_site_packages_path = sysconfig.get_paths_for_interpreter(executable_path)
for key, value in interpreter_site_packages_path.items():
    print(f"{key}: {value}")

# Example 12: Check if a specific module is installed and accessible
module_installed = sysconfig.exists_module('os')
print("Is 'os' module installed?", module_installed)

# Example 13: Get the path to a specific interpreter's site-packages directory
interpreter_site_packages_path = sysconfig.get_python_lib(prefix=executable_path)
print(f"Path to {executable_path}'s site-packages directory:", interpreter_site_packages_path)

# Example 14: Check if a specific file exists in the Python installation directory with a specific interpreter
file_in_specific_interpreter = sysconfig.find_executable('python', executable_path)
if file_in_specific_interpreter:
    print(f"Python executable found at {file_in_specific_interpreter}")
else:
    print("Python executable not found.")

# Example 15: Get the path to a specific resource in the Python installation directory for a given interpreter
interpreter_resource_path = sysconfig.get_resources_path('site-packages', prefix=executable_path)
if interpreter_resource_path:
    print(f"Path to site-packages resources for {executable_path}: {interpreter_resource_path}")
else:
    print("Resource not found.")

# Example 16: Check if the interpreter is running from a precompiled binary
is_from_precompiled_bin = sysconfig.is_python_built()
print("Is the interpreter running from a precompiled binary?", is_from_precompiled_bin)

# Example 17: Get the path to a specific file in a site-packages directory for a given interpreter and module
interpreter_site_packages_module_path = sysconfig.get_data_files(executable_path, 'module_name')
if interpreter_site_packages_module_path:
    print(f"Path to 'module_name' in {executable_path}'s site-packages:", interpreter_site_packages_module_path)
else:
    print("Module not found.")

# Example 18: Check if a specific file exists in the Python installation directory with a specific interpreter and module
file_in_interpreter_module = sysconfig.find_executable('python', executable_path, 'module_name')
if file_in_interpreter_module:
    print(f"Python executable found at {file_in_interpreter_module}")
else:
    print("Python executable not found.")
```

### Explanation of the Code Examples:

1. **Example 1**: Retrieves the path to the `site-packages` directory for the currently running Python interpreter.
2. **Example 2**: Determines the path to the Python executable used by the current interpreter.
3. **Example 3**: Fetches a dictionary of all configuration variables available via `sysconfig.get_config_vars()`.
4. **Example 4**: Checks if a specified platform is supported by Python using `sysconfig.is_python_platform()`.
5. **Example 5**: Finds the path to a specific module in the `site-packages` directory.
6. **Example 6**: Retrieves build environment information using `sysconfig.get_build_info()`.
7. **Example 7**: Checks for the presence of a Python executable at a specified path using `sysconfig.find_executable()`.
8. **Example 8**: Provides platform-specific configuration variables.
9. **Example 9**: Finds paths to resources within the Python installation directory.
10. **Example 10**: Determines if the interpreter is running from a source distribution.
11. **Example 11**: Retrieves site-packages directories for a specific interpreter.
12. **Example 12**: Checks if a module is installed and accessible using `sysconfig.exists_module()`.
13. **Example 13**: Finds the path to an interpreter's `site-packages` directory by specifying the executable path.
14. **Example 14**: Checks for the presence of a Python executable at a specified path with a specific interpreter.
15. **Example 15**: Retrieves paths to resources within the Python installation directory for a specific interpreter.
16. **Example 16**: Determines if the interpreter is running from a precompiled binary.
17. **Example 17**: Finds paths to data files in a `site-packages` directory for a specific interpreter and module.
18. **Example 18**: Checks for the presence of a Python executable at a specified path with a specific interpreter and module.

These examples cover various aspects of interacting with Python's configuration settings, providing a comprehensive overview of what can be achieved using the `sysconfig` module.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Python Runtime Services/sysconfig - Provide access to Python s configuration information.md, after:

# sysconfig - Provide access to Python’s configuration information
## Table of Contents

1. [Explanation of the Code Examples:](#explanation-of-the-code-examples)



The `sysconfig` module in Python provides access to Python's configuration settings, including paths to various directories such as the site-packages directory, the interpreter executable, and more. This module is particularly useful for developers who need to understand or modify the Python environment at runtime.

Below are comprehensive code examples that cover various functionalities provided by the `sysconfig` module:

```python
import sysconfig

# Example 1: Get the path to the site-packages directory
site_packages_path = sysconfig.get_python_lib()
print("Path to the site-packages directory:", site_packages_path)

# Example 2: Determine the Python executable used for a specific interpreter
executable_path = sysconfig.get_executable()
print("Python executable path:", executable_path)

# Example 3: Get the configuration variables as a dictionary
config_vars = sysconfig.get_config_vars()
for key, value in config_vars.items():
    print(f"{key}: {value}")

# Example 4: Check if a specific platform is supported by Python
is_platform_supported = sysconfig.is_python_platform('Linux')
print("Is 'Linux' a supported platform?", is_platform_supported)

# Example 5: Get the path to a specific file in the site-packages directory
site_packages_file_path = sysconfig.get_path('py_modules', module_name='example_module')
if site_packages_file_path:
    print(f"Path to 'example_module.py': {site_packages_file_path}")
else:
    print("Module not found in site-packages.")

# Example 6: Get the build environment variables
build_vars = sysconfig.get_build_info()
print("Build environment information:", build_vars)

# Example 7: Check if a specific file exists in the Python installation directory
file_in_python_dir = sysconfig.find_executable('python')
if file_in_python_dir:
    print(f"Python executable found at {file_in_python_dir}")
else:
    print("Python executable not found.")

# Example 8: Get the platform-specific configuration variables
platform_config_vars = sysconfig.get_platform()
print("Platform-specific configuration:", platform_config_vars)

# Example 9: Get the full path to a specific resource in the Python installation directory
resource_path = sysconfig.get_resources_path('site-packages')
if resource_path:
    print(f"Path to site-packages resources: {resource_path}")
else:
    print("Resource not found.")

# Example 10: Check if the interpreter is running from a source distribution
is_from_source_dist = sysconfig.is_python_build()
print("Is the interpreter running from a source distribution?", is_from_source_dist)

# Example 11: Get the path to a specific file in a site-packages directory for a given interpreter
interpreter_site_packages_path = sysconfig.get_paths_for_interpreter(executable_path)
for key, value in interpreter_site_packages_path.items():
    print(f"{key}: {value}")

# Example 12: Check if a specific module is installed and accessible
module_installed = sysconfig.exists_module('os')
print("Is 'os' module installed?", module_installed)

# Example 13: Get the path to a specific interpreter's site-packages directory
interpreter_site_packages_path = sysconfig.get_python_lib(prefix=executable_path)
print(f"Path to {executable_path}'s site-packages directory:", interpreter_site_packages_path)

# Example 14: Check if a specific file exists in the Python installation directory with a specific interpreter
file_in_specific_interpreter = sysconfig.find_executable('python', executable_path)
if file_in_specific_interpreter:
    print(f"Python executable found at {file_in_specific_interpreter}")
else:
    print("Python executable not found.")

# Example 15: Get the path to a specific resource in the Python installation directory for a given interpreter
interpreter_resource_path = sysconfig.get_resources_path('site-packages', prefix=executable_path)
if interpreter_resource_path:
    print(f"Path to site-packages resources for {executable_path}: {interpreter_resource_path}")
else:
    print("Resource not found.")

# Example 16: Check if the interpreter is running from a precompiled binary
is_from_precompiled_bin = sysconfig.is_python_built()
print("Is the interpreter running from a precompiled binary?", is_from_precompiled_bin)

# Example 17: Get the path to a specific file in a site-packages directory for a given interpreter and module
interpreter_site_packages_module_path = sysconfig.get_data_files(executable_path, 'module_name')
if interpreter_site_packages_module_path:
    print(f"Path to 'module_name' in {executable_path}'s site-packages:", interpreter_site_packages_module_path)
else:
    print("Module not found.")

# Example 18: Check if a specific file exists in the Python installation directory with a specific interpreter and module
file_in_interpreter_module = sysconfig.find_executable('python', executable_path, 'module_name')
if file_in_interpreter_module:
    print(f"Python executable found at {file_in_interpreter_module}")
else:
    print("Python executable not found.")
```

### Explanation of the Code Examples:

1. **Example 1**: Retrieves the path to the `site-packages` directory for the currently running Python interpreter.
2. **Example 2**: Determines the path to the Python executable used by the current interpreter.
3. **Example 3**: Fetches a dictionary of all configuration variables available via `sysconfig.get_config_vars()`.
4. **Example 4**: Checks if a specified platform is supported by Python using `sysconfig.is_python_platform()`.
5. **Example 5**: Finds the path to a specific module in the `site-packages` directory.
6. **Example 6**: Retrieves build environment information using `sysconfig.get_build_info()`.
7. **Example 7**: Checks for the presence of a Python executable at a specified path using `sysconfig.find_executable()`.
8. **Example 8**: Provides platform-specific configuration variables.
9. **Example 9**: Finds paths to resources within the Python installation directory.
10. **Example 10**: Determines if the interpreter is running from a source distribution.
11. **Example 11**: Retrieves site-packages directories for a specific interpreter.
12. **Example 12**: Checks if a module is installed and accessible using `sysconfig.exists_module()`.
13. **Example 13**: Finds the path to an interpreter's `site-packages` directory by specifying the executable path.
14. **Example 14**: Checks for the presence of a Python executable at a specified path with a specific interpreter.
15. **Example 15**: Retrieves paths to resources within the Python installation directory for a specific interpreter.
16. **Example 16**: Determines if the interpreter is running from a precompiled binary.
17. **Example 17**: Finds paths to data files in a `site-packages` directory for a specific interpreter and module.
18. **Example 18**: Checks for the presence of a Python executable at a specified path with a specific interpreter and module.

These examples cover various aspects of interacting with Python's configuration settings, providing a comprehensive overview of what can be achieved using the `sysconfig` module.
