standard_library_documents/File Formats/configparser - Configuration file parser.md, before:

# configparser - Configuration file parser

The `configparser` module in Python is used to read and write configuration files in a format similar to the Windows INI files but with more features. Below are comprehensive and well-documented examples of how to use various functionalities provided by this module.

### 1. Reading an INI File

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object
config = configparser.ConfigParser()

# Read the configuration file
config.read('example.ini')

# Access sections and values
print("Section:", config.sections())
for section in config.sections():
    print(f"Section: {section}")
    for key, value in config.items(section):
        print(f"{key}: {value}")

# Reading a specific value from a section
username = config.get('Database', 'user')
password = config.get('Database', 'password')
print("Username:", username)
print("Password:", password)
```

### 2. Writing to an INI File

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object
config = configparser.ConfigParser()

# Add sections and set values
config['Section1'] = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
config['Section2'] = {'key3': 'value3', 'key4': 'value4'}

# Write the configuration to a file
with open('example.ini', 'w') as configfile:
    config.write(configfile)

print("Configuration written to example.ini")
```

### 3. Handling Default Values

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object with default values
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['DEFAULT'] = {'timeout': '60'}
config['Database'] = {'user': 'admin', 'password': 'secret'}

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
config.read('example.ini')

# Access default and specific values
default_timeout = config.getint('DEFAULT', 'timeout')
database_user = config.get('Database', 'user')
print("Default Timeout:", default_timeout)
print("Database User:", database_user)

# Writing the updated configuration with new defaults
config['DEFAULT'] = {'timeout': '120'}
with open('example.ini', 'w') as configfile:
    config.write(configfile)

print("Updated configuration written to example.ini")
```

### 4. Using Interpolation

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object with interpolation
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Database'] = {'username': '${USERNAME}', 'password': '${PASSWORD}'}

# Example of setting environment variables for interpolation
import os
os.environ['USERNAME'] = 'user123'
os.environ['PASSWORD'] = 'pass456'

# Read the configuration file with interpolation
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    config.read_file(configfile)

# Access values after interpolation
database_username = config.get('Database', 'username')
database_password = config.get('Database', 'password')

print("Interpolated Username:", database_username)
print("Interpolated Password:", database_password)
```

### 5. Handling Lists

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object with list values
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Section'] = {'items': ['item1', 'item2', 'item3']}

# Read the configuration file
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    config.read_file(configfile)

# Access list values
items = config.get('Section', 'items')
print("Items:", items.split(', '))  # Note: This assumes a comma-separated string

# Writing the updated configuration with list values
config['Section']['items'] = ['item1', 'updated-item2', 'item3']
with open('example.ini', 'w') as configfile:
    config.write(configfile)

print("Updated configuration written to example.ini")
```

### 6. Handling Sections

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object and add sections
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config.add_section('Section1')
config['Section1']['key1'] = 'value1'
config.add_section('Section2')
config['Section2']['key2'] = 'value2'

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    config.read_file(configfile)

# Access all sections
all_sections = config.sections()
print("All Sections:", all_sections)

# Removing a section
config.remove_section('Section1')
print("After removing Section1:", config.sections())

# Writing the updated configuration without removed sections
with open('example.ini', 'w') as configfile:
    config.write(configfile)

print("Updated configuration written to example.ini")
```

### 7. Handling Comments

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object and add comments
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Section'] = {'key1': 'value1'}
config.read('example.ini')

# Add a comment before a section
config.add_section('AnotherSection')
config['AnotherSection']['key2'] = 'value2'
config.set_comment('AnotherSection', 'This is a comment for AnotherSection.')

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    print(configfile.read())

print("Comments added to the configuration")
```

### 8. Handling Multiple Values in a Section

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object and add multiple values in a section
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Section'] = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
config.set('Section', 'key3', 'value3')

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    print(configfile.read())

print("Multiple values in a section added to the configuration")
```

### 9. Handling Sections with Duplicate Keys

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object and add sections with duplicate keys
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Section1'] = {'key': 'value1'}
config['Section2'] = {'key': 'value2'}

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    print(configfile.read())

print("Sections with duplicate keys added to the configuration")
```

These examples cover various aspects of using the `configparser` module, including reading and writing configurations, handling default values, interpolation, lists, sections, comments, and duplicate keys.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/File Formats/configparser - Configuration file parser.md, after:

# configparser - Configuration file parser
## Table of Contents

1. [1. Reading an INI File](#1-reading-an-ini-file)
2. [2. Writing to an INI File](#2-writing-to-an-ini-file)
3. [3. Handling Default Values](#3-handling-default-values)
4. [4. Using Interpolation](#4-using-interpolation)
5. [5. Handling Lists](#5-handling-lists)
6. [6. Handling Sections](#6-handling-sections)
7. [7. Handling Comments](#7-handling-comments)
8. [8. Handling Multiple Values in a Section](#8-handling-multiple-values-in-a-section)
9. [9. Handling Sections with Duplicate Keys](#9-handling-sections-with-duplicate-keys)



The `configparser` module in Python is used to read and write configuration files in a format similar to the Windows INI files but with more features. Below are comprehensive and well-documented examples of how to use various functionalities provided by this module.

### 1. Reading an INI File

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object
config = configparser.ConfigParser()

# Read the configuration file
config.read('example.ini')

# Access sections and values
print("Section:", config.sections())
for section in config.sections():
    print(f"Section: {section}")
    for key, value in config.items(section):
        print(f"{key}: {value}")

# Reading a specific value from a section
username = config.get('Database', 'user')
password = config.get('Database', 'password')
print("Username:", username)
print("Password:", password)
```

### 2. Writing to an INI File

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object
config = configparser.ConfigParser()

# Add sections and set values
config['Section1'] = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
config['Section2'] = {'key3': 'value3', 'key4': 'value4'}

# Write the configuration to a file
with open('example.ini', 'w') as configfile:
    config.write(configfile)

print("Configuration written to example.ini")
```

### 3. Handling Default Values

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object with default values
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['DEFAULT'] = {'timeout': '60'}
config['Database'] = {'user': 'admin', 'password': 'secret'}

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
config.read('example.ini')

# Access default and specific values
default_timeout = config.getint('DEFAULT', 'timeout')
database_user = config.get('Database', 'user')
print("Default Timeout:", default_timeout)
print("Database User:", database_user)

# Writing the updated configuration with new defaults
config['DEFAULT'] = {'timeout': '120'}
with open('example.ini', 'w') as configfile:
    config.write(configfile)

print("Updated configuration written to example.ini")
```

### 4. Using Interpolation

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object with interpolation
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Database'] = {'username': '${USERNAME}', 'password': '${PASSWORD}'}

# Example of setting environment variables for interpolation
import os
os.environ['USERNAME'] = 'user123'
os.environ['PASSWORD'] = 'pass456'

# Read the configuration file with interpolation
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    config.read_file(configfile)

# Access values after interpolation
database_username = config.get('Database', 'username')
database_password = config.get('Database', 'password')

print("Interpolated Username:", database_username)
print("Interpolated Password:", database_password)
```

### 5. Handling Lists

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object with list values
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Section'] = {'items': ['item1', 'item2', 'item3']}

# Read the configuration file
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    config.read_file(configfile)

# Access list values
items = config.get('Section', 'items')
print("Items:", items.split(', '))  # Note: This assumes a comma-separated string

# Writing the updated configuration with list values
config['Section']['items'] = ['item1', 'updated-item2', 'item3']
with open('example.ini', 'w') as configfile:
    config.write(configfile)

print("Updated configuration written to example.ini")
```

### 6. Handling Sections

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object and add sections
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config.add_section('Section1')
config['Section1']['key1'] = 'value1'
config.add_section('Section2')
config['Section2']['key2'] = 'value2'

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    config.read_file(configfile)

# Access all sections
all_sections = config.sections()
print("All Sections:", all_sections)

# Removing a section
config.remove_section('Section1')
print("After removing Section1:", config.sections())

# Writing the updated configuration without removed sections
with open('example.ini', 'w') as configfile:
    config.write(configfile)

print("Updated configuration written to example.ini")
```

### 7. Handling Comments

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object and add comments
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Section'] = {'key1': 'value1'}
config.read('example.ini')

# Add a comment before a section
config.add_section('AnotherSection')
config['AnotherSection']['key2'] = 'value2'
config.set_comment('AnotherSection', 'This is a comment for AnotherSection.')

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    print(configfile.read())

print("Comments added to the configuration")
```

### 8. Handling Multiple Values in a Section

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object and add multiple values in a section
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Section'] = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
config.set('Section', 'key3', 'value3')

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    print(configfile.read())

print("Multiple values in a section added to the configuration")
```

### 9. Handling Sections with Duplicate Keys

```python
import configparser

# Create a ConfigParser object and add sections with duplicate keys
config = configparser.ConfigParser()
config['Section1'] = {'key': 'value1'}
config['Section2'] = {'key': 'value2'}

# Read the configuration file (assuming it exists)
with open('example.ini', 'r') as configfile:
    print(configfile.read())

print("Sections with duplicate keys added to the configuration")
```

These examples cover various aspects of using the `configparser` module, including reading and writing configurations, handling default values, interpolation, lists, sections, comments, and duplicate keys.
