standard_library_documents/File Formats/tomllib - Parse TOML files.md, before:

# tomllib - Parse TOML files

Below are comprehensive examples of using the `tomllib` module from the Python standard library to parse TOML files. Each example is well-documented with comments explaining each step.

```python
import tomllib

def parse_toml_file(file_path):
    """
    Parses a TOML file and returns a dictionary representing the parsed data.

    Parameters:
    - file_path (str): The path to the TOML file to be parsed.

    Returns:
    - dict: A dictionary containing the parsed data from the TOML file.
    """
    try:
        # Open the TOML file in binary mode
        with open(file_path, 'rb') as file:
            # Parse the TOML content using tomllib.load()
            data = tomllib.load(file)
        
        return data
    
    except FileNotFoundError:
        print(f"Error: The file '{file_path}' was not found.")
        return None

    except Exception as e:
        print(f"An error occurred while parsing the file: {e}")
        return None

def main():
    """
    Main function to demonstrate usage of parse_toml_file function.
    """
    # Path to the TOML file
    toml_file_path = 'example.toml'
    
    # Parse the TOML file and store the result in a variable
    parsed_data = parse_toml_file(toml_file_path)
    
    # Check if parsing was successful
    if parsed_data is not None:
        # Print the parsed data
        print("Parsed TOML Data:")
        print(parsed_data)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

### Explanation of Examples

1. **parse_toml_file Function**:
   - This function takes a file path as an argument and attempts to open and parse the TOML file using `tomllib.load()`.
   - The file is opened in binary mode (`'rb'`) because TOML files are encoded in UTF-8, which can include byte sequences not representable by ASCII characters.
   - If the file is successfully parsed, the function returns a dictionary containing the parsed data.
   - Error handling is included to catch `FileNotFoundError` and any other exceptions that might occur during parsing.

2. **main Function**:
   - The `main` function demonstrates how to use the `parse_toml_file` function.
   - It specifies the path to a TOML file (`example.toml`) and calls `parse_toml_file` with this path.
   - If parsing is successful, it prints the parsed data.

### Example TOML File (`example.toml`)
For demonstration purposes, here's an example of what your TOML file might look like:

```toml
# example.toml

[settings]
name = "John Doe"
age = 30
email = "john.doe@example.com"

[contacts]
work = { phone = "+1-555-1234", email = "johndoe@work.com" }
personal = { phone = "+1-555-5678", email = "johndoe@personal.com" }

# Array of items
fruits = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"]

# Nested tables
[settings.metadata]
created_at = 2023-10-01T14:30:00Z
updated_at = 2023-10-05T16:45:00Z

[groups]
employees = ["Alice", "Bob"]
managers = ["Charlie"]
```

### Usage in Documentation

This code can be used as a starting point for integrating TOML parsing into larger Python applications. It provides a robust and error-handled way to parse TOML files, which is useful for configuration management or reading data from external sources that use TOML format.

By following the provided examples, developers can effectively utilize the `tomllib` module to handle TOML files in their projects.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/File Formats/tomllib - Parse TOML files.md, after:

# tomllib - Parse TOML files
## Table of Contents

1. [Explanation of Examples](#explanation-of-examples)
2. [Example TOML File (`example.toml`)](#example-toml-file-exampletoml)
3. [Usage in Documentation](#usage-in-documentation)



Below are comprehensive examples of using the `tomllib` module from the Python standard library to parse TOML files. Each example is well-documented with comments explaining each step.

```python
import tomllib

def parse_toml_file(file_path):
    """
    Parses a TOML file and returns a dictionary representing the parsed data.

    Parameters:
    - file_path (str): The path to the TOML file to be parsed.

    Returns:
    - dict: A dictionary containing the parsed data from the TOML file.
    """
    try:
        # Open the TOML file in binary mode
        with open(file_path, 'rb') as file:
            # Parse the TOML content using tomllib.load()
            data = tomllib.load(file)
        
        return data
    
    except FileNotFoundError:
        print(f"Error: The file '{file_path}' was not found.")
        return None

    except Exception as e:
        print(f"An error occurred while parsing the file: {e}")
        return None

def main():
    """
    Main function to demonstrate usage of parse_toml_file function.
    """
    # Path to the TOML file
    toml_file_path = 'example.toml'
    
    # Parse the TOML file and store the result in a variable
    parsed_data = parse_toml_file(toml_file_path)
    
    # Check if parsing was successful
    if parsed_data is not None:
        # Print the parsed data
        print("Parsed TOML Data:")
        print(parsed_data)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

### Explanation of Examples

1. **parse_toml_file Function**:
   - This function takes a file path as an argument and attempts to open and parse the TOML file using `tomllib.load()`.
   - The file is opened in binary mode (`'rb'`) because TOML files are encoded in UTF-8, which can include byte sequences not representable by ASCII characters.
   - If the file is successfully parsed, the function returns a dictionary containing the parsed data.
   - Error handling is included to catch `FileNotFoundError` and any other exceptions that might occur during parsing.

2. **main Function**:
   - The `main` function demonstrates how to use the `parse_toml_file` function.
   - It specifies the path to a TOML file (`example.toml`) and calls `parse_toml_file` with this path.
   - If parsing is successful, it prints the parsed data.

### Example TOML File (`example.toml`)
For demonstration purposes, here's an example of what your TOML file might look like:

```toml
# example.toml

[settings]
name = "John Doe"
age = 30
email = "john.doe@example.com"

[contacts]
work = { phone = "+1-555-1234", email = "johndoe@work.com" }
personal = { phone = "+1-555-5678", email = "johndoe@personal.com" }

# Array of items
fruits = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"]

# Nested tables
[settings.metadata]
created_at = 2023-10-01T14:30:00Z
updated_at = 2023-10-05T16:45:00Z

[groups]
employees = ["Alice", "Bob"]
managers = ["Charlie"]
```

### Usage in Documentation

This code can be used as a starting point for integrating TOML parsing into larger Python applications. It provides a robust and error-handled way to parse TOML files, which is useful for configuration management or reading data from external sources that use TOML format.

By following the provided examples, developers can effectively utilize the `tomllib` module to handle TOML files in their projects.
