standard_library_documents/Unix Specific Services/syslog - Unix syslog library routines.md, before:

# syslog - Unix syslog library routines

The `syslog` module provides access to the system logging capabilities on Unix-like systems. This module allows you to send log messages to various destinations such as the system logger, files, or remote servers.

Here are comprehensive and well-documented code examples for each functionality in the `syslog` module:

### 1. Opening a syslog connection

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility (e.g., LOG_USER)
facility = syslog.LOG_USER

# Open the syslog connection with default options
syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=syslog.LOG_PID, facility=facility)

# Write a debug message
syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message')

# Write an info message
syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_INFO, 'This is an info message')

# Close the syslog connection
syslog.closelog()
```

### 2. Writing to a file

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with a file destination
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Write a debug message to the file
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message logged to a file')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 3. Writing to a remote server

```python
import syslog

# Define the host and port of the remote syslog server
host = 'syslog.example.com'
port = 514

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection to a remote server
with socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_DGRAM) as sock:
    try:
        syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, address=host)

        # Write an info message to the remote server
        syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_INFO, 'This is an info message sent to a remote server')

    except socket.error as e:
        print(f"Failed to open syslog connection: {e}")

    finally:
        syslog.closelog()
```

### 4. Setting log format

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with a custom format
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Set a custom format string for log messages
    syslog.setlogmask(syslog.LOG_UPTO(syslog.LOG_INFO))
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_INFO, 'This is an info message with a custom format')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 5. Handling multiple facilities and priorities

```python
import syslog

# Define the facilities and log options
facilities = [syslog.LOG_LOCAL0, syslog.LOG_LOCAL1]
log_options = {
    syslog.LOG_LOCAL0: syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY,
    syslog.LOG_LOCAL1: syslog.LOG_USER | syslog.LOG_CONS
}

# Open the syslog connection with multiple facilities and priorities
for facility in facilities:
    with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
        syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_options[facility], facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

        # Write debug messages to different facilities
        syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message from LOG_LOCAL0')
        syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message from LOG_LOCAL1')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 6. Using syslog messages with custom identifiers

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with a custom identifier
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp.mysubsystem', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Write a debug message using a custom identifier
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message from mysubsystem')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 7. Handling log messages with timestamps

```python
import syslog
import time

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with a custom timestamp format
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Write a debug message with a custom timestamp format
    current_time = time.strftime('%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, f'[{current_time}] This is a debug message')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 8. Handling log messages with different priorities

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with different priorities
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Write debug messages to different priorities
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_INFO, 'This is an info message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_WARNING, 'This is a warning message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_ERR, 'This is an error message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_CRIT, 'This is a critical message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_ALERT, 'This is an alert message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_EMERG, 'This is an emergency message')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

These examples demonstrate various functionalities of the `syslog` module, including opening connections to different destinations, writing log messages with custom formats and identifiers, handling different priorities, and logging to files or remote servers. Each example includes comments explaining each step for clarity and completeness.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Unix Specific Services/syslog - Unix syslog library routines.md, after:

# syslog - Unix syslog library routines
## Table of Contents

1. [1. Opening a syslog connection](#1-opening-a-syslog-connection)
2. [2. Writing to a file](#2-writing-to-a-file)
3. [3. Writing to a remote server](#3-writing-to-a-remote-server)
4. [4. Setting log format](#4-setting-log-format)
5. [5. Handling multiple facilities and priorities](#5-handling-multiple-facilities-and-priorities)
6. [6. Using syslog messages with custom identifiers](#6-using-syslog-messages-with-custom-identifiers)
7. [7. Handling log messages with timestamps](#7-handling-log-messages-with-timestamps)
8. [8. Handling log messages with different priorities](#8-handling-log-messages-with-different-priorities)



The `syslog` module provides access to the system logging capabilities on Unix-like systems. This module allows you to send log messages to various destinations such as the system logger, files, or remote servers.

Here are comprehensive and well-documented code examples for each functionality in the `syslog` module:

### 1. Opening a syslog connection

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility (e.g., LOG_USER)
facility = syslog.LOG_USER

# Open the syslog connection with default options
syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=syslog.LOG_PID, facility=facility)

# Write a debug message
syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message')

# Write an info message
syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_INFO, 'This is an info message')

# Close the syslog connection
syslog.closelog()
```

### 2. Writing to a file

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with a file destination
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Write a debug message to the file
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message logged to a file')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 3. Writing to a remote server

```python
import syslog

# Define the host and port of the remote syslog server
host = 'syslog.example.com'
port = 514

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection to a remote server
with socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_DGRAM) as sock:
    try:
        syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, address=host)

        # Write an info message to the remote server
        syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_INFO, 'This is an info message sent to a remote server')

    except socket.error as e:
        print(f"Failed to open syslog connection: {e}")

    finally:
        syslog.closelog()
```

### 4. Setting log format

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with a custom format
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Set a custom format string for log messages
    syslog.setlogmask(syslog.LOG_UPTO(syslog.LOG_INFO))
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_INFO, 'This is an info message with a custom format')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 5. Handling multiple facilities and priorities

```python
import syslog

# Define the facilities and log options
facilities = [syslog.LOG_LOCAL0, syslog.LOG_LOCAL1]
log_options = {
    syslog.LOG_LOCAL0: syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY,
    syslog.LOG_LOCAL1: syslog.LOG_USER | syslog.LOG_CONS
}

# Open the syslog connection with multiple facilities and priorities
for facility in facilities:
    with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
        syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_options[facility], facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

        # Write debug messages to different facilities
        syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message from LOG_LOCAL0')
        syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message from LOG_LOCAL1')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 6. Using syslog messages with custom identifiers

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with a custom identifier
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp.mysubsystem', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Write a debug message using a custom identifier
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message from mysubsystem')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 7. Handling log messages with timestamps

```python
import syslog
import time

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with a custom timestamp format
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Write a debug message with a custom timestamp format
    current_time = time.strftime('%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, f'[{current_time}] This is a debug message')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

### 8. Handling log messages with different priorities

```python
import syslog

# Define the facility and log option
facility = syslog.LOG_LOCAL0
log_option = syslog.LOG_PID | syslog.LOG_NDELAY

# Open the syslog connection with different priorities
with open('/var/log/myapp.log', 'w') as log_file:
    syslog.openlog(ident='myapp', logoption=log_option, facility=facility, logfile=log_file)

    # Write debug messages to different priorities
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_DEBUG, 'This is a debug message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_INFO, 'This is an info message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_WARNING, 'This is a warning message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_ERR, 'This is an error message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_CRIT, 'This is a critical message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_ALERT, 'This is an alert message')
    syslog.syslog(syslog.LOG_EMERG, 'This is an emergency message')

    # Close the syslog connection
    syslog.closelog()
```

These examples demonstrate various functionalities of the `syslog` module, including opening connections to different destinations, writing log messages with custom formats and identifiers, handling different priorities, and logging to files or remote servers. Each example includes comments explaining each step for clarity and completeness.
