standard_library_documents/Internet Protocols and Support/webbrowser - Convenient web-browser controller.md, before:

# webbrowser - Convenient web-browser controller

The `webbrowser` module in Python is a convenient interface to allow you to control web browsers from within your applications. It provides a way to open URLs, search engines, and other web-based services without requiring users to manually interact with their web browsers. Below are comprehensive examples for each functionality provided by the `webbrowser` module:

### 1. Opening a URL

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL in the default web browser
url = "https://www.example.com"
webbrowser.open(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.open(url)` to open the specified URL in the default web browser.

### 2. Opening a URL using a specific browser

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL using Google Chrome
url = "https://www.example.com"
chrome_path = r"C:\Program Files (x86)\Google\Chrome\Application\chrome.exe %s"

webbrowser.get(chrome_path).open(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.get(chrome_path)` to specify Google Chrome as the browser. The `%s` is a placeholder for the URL.
- Use `.open(url)` to open the specified URL using the configured browser.

### 3. Opening a URL in a new tab of an existing window

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL in a new tab of the default web browser
url = "https://www.example.com"
webbrowser.open_new_tab(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.open_new_tab(url)` to open the specified URL in a new tab.

### 4. Opening a URL in a new window

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL in a new window of the default web browser
url = "https://www.example.com"
webbrowser.open_new(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.open_new(url)` to open the specified URL in a new window.

### 5. Searching for a query using a search engine

```python
import webbrowser

# Search for a query using Google's search engine
query = "Python programming"
webbrowser.get("http://www.google.com/search?q=").open(query)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.get("http://www.google.com/search?q=")` to specify Google as the search engine.
- Use `.open(query)` to open a new browser window with the query result.

### 6. Opening a URL in an external application

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL using an external application (e.g., Notepad)
url = "https://www.example.com"
webbrowser.get("notepad.exe").open(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.get("notepad.exe")` to specify Notepad as the external application.
- Use `.open(url)` to open the specified URL in Notepad.

### 7. Getting all available web browsers

```python
import webbrowser

# Get a list of all available web browsers
browsers = webbrowser.browsers()

for browser in browsers:
    print(f"Name: {browser.name}, Executable: {browser.executable}")
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.browsers()` to retrieve a list of all available web browsers.
- Iterate over the list and print each browser's name and executable path.

### 8. Handling exceptions

```python
import webbrowser

# Attempt to open a URL and handle exceptions if needed
try:
    url = "https://www.example.com"
    webbrowser.open(url)
except Exception as e:
    print(f"An error occurred: {e}")
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use a `try-except` block to handle any exceptions that might occur when opening the URL.

These examples cover various functionalities provided by the `webbrowser` module, demonstrating how to open URLs, specify browsers, and handle different scenarios. You can use these examples as a starting point for your applications that need to interact with web browsers.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Internet Protocols and Support/webbrowser - Convenient web-browser controller.md, after:

# webbrowser - Convenient web-browser controller
## Table of Contents

1. [1. Opening a URL](#1-opening-a-url)
2. [Explanation:](#explanation)
3. [2. Opening a URL using a specific browser](#2-opening-a-url-using-a-specific-browser)
4. [Explanation:](#explanation)
5. [3. Opening a URL in a new tab of an existing window](#3-opening-a-url-in-a-new-tab-of-an-existing-window)
6. [Explanation:](#explanation)
7. [4. Opening a URL in a new window](#4-opening-a-url-in-a-new-window)
8. [Explanation:](#explanation)
9. [5. Searching for a query using a search engine](#5-searching-for-a-query-using-a-search-engine)
10. [Explanation:](#explanation)



The `webbrowser` module in Python is a convenient interface to allow you to control web browsers from within your applications. It provides a way to open URLs, search engines, and other web-based services without requiring users to manually interact with their web browsers. Below are comprehensive examples for each functionality provided by the `webbrowser` module:

### 1. Opening a URL

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL in the default web browser
url = "https://www.example.com"
webbrowser.open(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.open(url)` to open the specified URL in the default web browser.

### 2. Opening a URL using a specific browser

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL using Google Chrome
url = "https://www.example.com"
chrome_path = r"C:\Program Files (x86)\Google\Chrome\Application\chrome.exe %s"

webbrowser.get(chrome_path).open(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.get(chrome_path)` to specify Google Chrome as the browser. The `%s` is a placeholder for the URL.
- Use `.open(url)` to open the specified URL using the configured browser.

### 3. Opening a URL in a new tab of an existing window

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL in a new tab of the default web browser
url = "https://www.example.com"
webbrowser.open_new_tab(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.open_new_tab(url)` to open the specified URL in a new tab.

### 4. Opening a URL in a new window

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL in a new window of the default web browser
url = "https://www.example.com"
webbrowser.open_new(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.open_new(url)` to open the specified URL in a new window.

### 5. Searching for a query using a search engine

```python
import webbrowser

# Search for a query using Google's search engine
query = "Python programming"
webbrowser.get("http://www.google.com/search?q=").open(query)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.get("http://www.google.com/search?q=")` to specify Google as the search engine.
- Use `.open(query)` to open a new browser window with the query result.

### 6. Opening a URL in an external application

```python
import webbrowser

# Open a specific URL using an external application (e.g., Notepad)
url = "https://www.example.com"
webbrowser.get("notepad.exe").open(url)
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.get("notepad.exe")` to specify Notepad as the external application.
- Use `.open(url)` to open the specified URL in Notepad.

### 7. Getting all available web browsers

```python
import webbrowser

# Get a list of all available web browsers
browsers = webbrowser.browsers()

for browser in browsers:
    print(f"Name: {browser.name}, Executable: {browser.executable}")
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use `webbrowser.browsers()` to retrieve a list of all available web browsers.
- Iterate over the list and print each browser's name and executable path.

### 8. Handling exceptions

```python
import webbrowser

# Attempt to open a URL and handle exceptions if needed
try:
    url = "https://www.example.com"
    webbrowser.open(url)
except Exception as e:
    print(f"An error occurred: {e}")
```

#### Explanation:
- Import the `webbrowser` module.
- Use a `try-except` block to handle any exceptions that might occur when opening the URL.

These examples cover various functionalities provided by the `webbrowser` module, demonstrating how to open URLs, specify browsers, and handle different scenarios. You can use these examples as a starting point for your applications that need to interact with web browsers.
