standard_library_documents/Internet Protocols and Support/wsgiref - WSGI Utilities and Reference Implementation.md, before:

# wsgiref - WSGI Utilities and Reference Implementation

The `wsgiref` module in Python provides utilities and a reference implementation of the Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI), which is a specification that defines how web servers can communicate with web applications. This module is particularly useful for developers who want to understand or implement WSGI-compliant frameworks.

Here are comprehensive code examples for various functionalities provided by the `wsgiref` module:

### 1. Simple WSGI Application

```python
# Import necessary modules from wsgiref
from wsgiref.simple_server import make_server, demo_app

def hello_world(environ, start_response):
    # Define the response headers and status code
    status = '200 OK'
    headers = [('Content-Type', 'text/plain')]
    
    # Start the response with the status and headers
    start_response(status, headers)
    
    # Return a simple message
    return [b"Hello, World!"]

# Set up a simple WSGI server to run the application
httpd = make_server('', 8000, hello_world)
print("Serving on port 8000...")

# Serve requests indefinitely until manually stopped
httpd.serve_forever()
```

**Explanation:**
- **Importing Modules**: The `wsgiref.simple_server` module provides tools for creating a simple WSGI server and an example application.
- **WSGI Application Function**: The `hello_world` function defines the logic of the application. It takes two parameters: `environ`, which is a dictionary containing details about the request, and `start_response`, which is used to send back the response headers and status code.
- **Starting the Server**: A simple server instance is created using `make_server`, specifying an empty string for the host and 8000 as the port. The application function `hello_world` is passed to this server.
- **Running the Server**: The server starts serving requests indefinitely, displaying a message in the console.

### 2. Debugging WSGI Applications

```python
from wsgiref.util import setup_testing_defaults
from wsgiref.simple_server import make_server

def debug_app(environ, start_response):
    # Set up testing defaults to simulate an environment
    setup_testing_defaults(environ)
    
    # Define the response headers and status code
    status = '200 OK'
    headers = [('Content-Type', 'text/plain')]
    
    # Start the response with the status and headers
    start_response(status, headers)
    
    # Return a simple message
    return [b"Debugging WSGI Application"]

# Set up a simple WSGI server to run the application
httpd = make_server('', 8001, debug_app)
print("Debugging server on port 8001...")

# Serve requests indefinitely until manually stopped
httpd.serve_forever()
```

**Explanation:**
- **Setup Testing Defaults**: This function sets up a testing environment for the WSGI application, which is useful for debugging and development purposes.
- **Debugging Application Logic**: The `debug_app` function uses `setup_testing_defaults` to configure the request environment, ensuring that it behaves like an actual HTTP request.

### 3. Parsing WSGI Environment

```python
from wsgiref.util import setup_testing_defaults

def parse_env(environ):
    # Set up testing defaults to simulate an environment
    setup_testing_defaults(environ)
    
    # Print the parsed environment variables and headers
    for key, value in environ.items():
        print(f"{key}: {value}")

# Create a WSGI environment dictionary
env = {}

# Parse the environment
parse_env(env)
```

**Explanation:**
- **Setup Testing Defaults**: This function prepares the environment to simulate a web request.
- **Parsing Environment Variables and Headers**: The `parse_env` function iterates over all key-value pairs in the `environ` dictionary and prints them. This is useful for understanding how the WSGI environment is structured.

### 4. Example of an Application using Request Parsing

```python
from wsgiref.simple_server import make_server, demo_app

def request_processing(environ, start_response):
    # Set up testing defaults to simulate an environment
    setup_testing_defaults(environ)
    
    # Extract the query string and parse it
    query_string = environ.get('QUERY_STRING')
    params = dict(query_string.split('&'))
    
    # Define the response headers and status code
    status = '200 OK'
    headers = [('Content-Type', 'text/plain')]
    
    # Start the response with the status and headers
    start_response(status, headers)
    
    # Process parameters and return a response
    if params.get('param1') == 'value1':
        return [b"Parameter matched!"]
    else:
        return [b"Parameter not matched."]

# Set up a simple WSGI server to run the application
httpd = make_server('', 8002, request_processing)
print("Request processing server on port 8002...")

# Serve requests indefinitely until manually stopped
httpd.serve_forever()
```

**Explanation:**
- **Query String Parsing**: The `request_processing` function extracts the query string from the environment and splits it into key-value pairs using `split('&')`.
- **Processing Parameters**: It checks if a specific parameter (`param1`) matches a given value (`value1`) and returns a response accordingly.

These examples cover basic functionalities of the `wsgiref` module, demonstrating how to set up a simple WSGI server, handle requests, parse environment variables, and process query strings. These can be useful for understanding the structure and functionality of WSGI applications in Python.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Internet Protocols and Support/wsgiref - WSGI Utilities and Reference Implementation.md, after:

# wsgiref - WSGI Utilities and Reference Implementation
## Table of Contents

1. [1. Simple WSGI Application](#1-simple-wsgi-application)
2. [2. Debugging WSGI Applications](#2-debugging-wsgi-applications)
3. [3. Parsing WSGI Environment](#3-parsing-wsgi-environment)
4. [4. Example of an Application using Request Parsing](#4-example-of-an-application-using-request-parsing)



The `wsgiref` module in Python provides utilities and a reference implementation of the Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI), which is a specification that defines how web servers can communicate with web applications. This module is particularly useful for developers who want to understand or implement WSGI-compliant frameworks.

Here are comprehensive code examples for various functionalities provided by the `wsgiref` module:

### 1. Simple WSGI Application

```python
# Import necessary modules from wsgiref
from wsgiref.simple_server import make_server, demo_app

def hello_world(environ, start_response):
    # Define the response headers and status code
    status = '200 OK'
    headers = [('Content-Type', 'text/plain')]
    
    # Start the response with the status and headers
    start_response(status, headers)
    
    # Return a simple message
    return [b"Hello, World!"]

# Set up a simple WSGI server to run the application
httpd = make_server('', 8000, hello_world)
print("Serving on port 8000...")

# Serve requests indefinitely until manually stopped
httpd.serve_forever()
```

**Explanation:**
- **Importing Modules**: The `wsgiref.simple_server` module provides tools for creating a simple WSGI server and an example application.
- **WSGI Application Function**: The `hello_world` function defines the logic of the application. It takes two parameters: `environ`, which is a dictionary containing details about the request, and `start_response`, which is used to send back the response headers and status code.
- **Starting the Server**: A simple server instance is created using `make_server`, specifying an empty string for the host and 8000 as the port. The application function `hello_world` is passed to this server.
- **Running the Server**: The server starts serving requests indefinitely, displaying a message in the console.

### 2. Debugging WSGI Applications

```python
from wsgiref.util import setup_testing_defaults
from wsgiref.simple_server import make_server

def debug_app(environ, start_response):
    # Set up testing defaults to simulate an environment
    setup_testing_defaults(environ)
    
    # Define the response headers and status code
    status = '200 OK'
    headers = [('Content-Type', 'text/plain')]
    
    # Start the response with the status and headers
    start_response(status, headers)
    
    # Return a simple message
    return [b"Debugging WSGI Application"]

# Set up a simple WSGI server to run the application
httpd = make_server('', 8001, debug_app)
print("Debugging server on port 8001...")

# Serve requests indefinitely until manually stopped
httpd.serve_forever()
```

**Explanation:**
- **Setup Testing Defaults**: This function sets up a testing environment for the WSGI application, which is useful for debugging and development purposes.
- **Debugging Application Logic**: The `debug_app` function uses `setup_testing_defaults` to configure the request environment, ensuring that it behaves like an actual HTTP request.

### 3. Parsing WSGI Environment

```python
from wsgiref.util import setup_testing_defaults

def parse_env(environ):
    # Set up testing defaults to simulate an environment
    setup_testing_defaults(environ)
    
    # Print the parsed environment variables and headers
    for key, value in environ.items():
        print(f"{key}: {value}")

# Create a WSGI environment dictionary
env = {}

# Parse the environment
parse_env(env)
```

**Explanation:**
- **Setup Testing Defaults**: This function prepares the environment to simulate a web request.
- **Parsing Environment Variables and Headers**: The `parse_env` function iterates over all key-value pairs in the `environ` dictionary and prints them. This is useful for understanding how the WSGI environment is structured.

### 4. Example of an Application using Request Parsing

```python
from wsgiref.simple_server import make_server, demo_app

def request_processing(environ, start_response):
    # Set up testing defaults to simulate an environment
    setup_testing_defaults(environ)
    
    # Extract the query string and parse it
    query_string = environ.get('QUERY_STRING')
    params = dict(query_string.split('&'))
    
    # Define the response headers and status code
    status = '200 OK'
    headers = [('Content-Type', 'text/plain')]
    
    # Start the response with the status and headers
    start_response(status, headers)
    
    # Process parameters and return a response
    if params.get('param1') == 'value1':
        return [b"Parameter matched!"]
    else:
        return [b"Parameter not matched."]

# Set up a simple WSGI server to run the application
httpd = make_server('', 8002, request_processing)
print("Request processing server on port 8002...")

# Serve requests indefinitely until manually stopped
httpd.serve_forever()
```

**Explanation:**
- **Query String Parsing**: The `request_processing` function extracts the query string from the environment and splits it into key-value pairs using `split('&')`.
- **Processing Parameters**: It checks if a specific parameter (`param1`) matches a given value (`value1`) and returns a response accordingly.

These examples cover basic functionalities of the `wsgiref` module, demonstrating how to set up a simple WSGI server, handle requests, parse environment variables, and process query strings. These can be useful for understanding the structure and functionality of WSGI applications in Python.
