standard_library_documents/Development Tools/test.support - Utilities for the Python test suite.md, before:

# test.support - Utilities for the Python test suite

The `test.support` module is part of Python's standard library, designed to support testing by providing utility functions that are commonly needed across different tests. Below are comprehensive examples demonstrating various functionalities provided by this module.

### 1. **Running Tests with a Specific Python Version**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_python_version(version):
    """
    Run the test suite using a specific Python version.
    
    Parameters:
        version (str): The Python version to use, e.g., '3.8', '3.9'.
    """
    # Check if the specified version is valid
    assert test.support.python_version_tuple >= tuple(map(int, version.split('.')))
    
    # Set the PATH environment variable to point to the desired Python binary
    os.environ['PATH'] = '/path/to/python' + version
    
    # Run the tests
    test_support.run_unittest('test_module_to_run')

# Example usage
run_tests_with_python_version('3.9')
```

### 2. **Generating Test Data for Specific Cases**

```python
import test.support

def generate_test_data(num_elements):
    """
    Generate a list of random integers.
    
    Parameters:
        num_elements (int): The number of elements in the list to generate.
        
    Returns:
        list: A list of random integers.
    """
    # Import the necessary module
    import random
    
    # Generate and return the list of random integers
    return [random.randint(0, 100) for _ in range(num_elements)]

# Example usage
data = generate_test_data(20)
print(data)
```

### 3. **Running Tests with Different Execution Modes**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_mode(mode):
    """
    Run the test suite using a specific execution mode.
    
    Parameters:
        mode (str): The execution mode to use, e.g., 'fast', 'slow'.
    """
    # Set the TEST_MODE environment variable to control the execution mode
    os.environ['TEST_MODE'] = mode
    
    # Run the tests
    test_support.run_unittest('test_module_to_run')

# Example usage
run_tests_with_mode('slow')
```

### 4. **Running Tests with Custom Test Runner**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_custom_runner():
    """
    Run the test suite using a custom test runner.
    
    The custom runner can be implemented using the `test_support.TestProgram` class.
    """
    # Define the test program
    test_program = test_support.TestProgram(
        argv=['-m', 'unittest'],
        exit=False,
        module='test_module_to_run'
    )
    
    # Run the tests
    test_program.run()

# Example usage
run_tests_with_custom_runner()
```

### 5. **Running Tests with Specific Test Output Formats**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_output_format(format):
    """
    Run the test suite and capture its output in a specific format.
    
    Parameters:
        format (str): The output format, e.g., 'text', 'junitxml'.
    """
    # Set the TEST_OUTPUT_FORMAT environment variable to control the output format
    os.environ['TEST_OUTPUT_FORMAT'] = format
    
    # Run the tests
    test_support.run_unittest('test_module_to_run')

# Example usage
run_tests_with_output_format('junitxml')
```

### 6. **Running Tests with Specific Test Suite Configuration**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_config(config):
    """
    Run the test suite using a specific configuration.
    
    Parameters:
        config (dict): The configuration settings to apply, e.g., {'verbose': True}.
    """
    # Set the TEST_CONFIG environment variable to control the configuration
    os.environ['TEST_CONFIG'] = json.dumps(config)
    
    # Run the tests
    test_support.run_unittest('test_module_to_run')

# Example usage
config = {'verbose': True}
run_tests_with_config(config)
```

These examples demonstrate how to use various functionalities provided by `test.support` to customize and control the execution of Python unit tests. Each example includes comments explaining the purpose, parameters, and usage of the functions.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Development Tools/test.support - Utilities for the Python test suite.md, after:

# test.support - Utilities for the Python test suite
## Table of Contents

1. [1. **Running Tests with a Specific Python Version**](#1-running-tests-with-a-specific-python-version)
2. [2. **Generating Test Data for Specific Cases**](#2-generating-test-data-for-specific-cases)
3. [3. **Running Tests with Different Execution Modes**](#3-running-tests-with-different-execution-modes)
4. [4. **Running Tests with Custom Test Runner**](#4-running-tests-with-custom-test-runner)
5. [5. **Running Tests with Specific Test Output Formats**](#5-running-tests-with-specific-test-output-formats)
6. [6. **Running Tests with Specific Test Suite Configuration**](#6-running-tests-with-specific-test-suite-configuration)



The `test.support` module is part of Python's standard library, designed to support testing by providing utility functions that are commonly needed across different tests. Below are comprehensive examples demonstrating various functionalities provided by this module.

### 1. **Running Tests with a Specific Python Version**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_python_version(version):
    """
    Run the test suite using a specific Python version.
    
    Parameters:
        version (str): The Python version to use, e.g., '3.8', '3.9'.
    """
    # Check if the specified version is valid
    assert test.support.python_version_tuple >= tuple(map(int, version.split('.')))
    
    # Set the PATH environment variable to point to the desired Python binary
    os.environ['PATH'] = '/path/to/python' + version
    
    # Run the tests
    test_support.run_unittest('test_module_to_run')

# Example usage
run_tests_with_python_version('3.9')
```

### 2. **Generating Test Data for Specific Cases**

```python
import test.support

def generate_test_data(num_elements):
    """
    Generate a list of random integers.
    
    Parameters:
        num_elements (int): The number of elements in the list to generate.
        
    Returns:
        list: A list of random integers.
    """
    # Import the necessary module
    import random
    
    # Generate and return the list of random integers
    return [random.randint(0, 100) for _ in range(num_elements)]

# Example usage
data = generate_test_data(20)
print(data)
```

### 3. **Running Tests with Different Execution Modes**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_mode(mode):
    """
    Run the test suite using a specific execution mode.
    
    Parameters:
        mode (str): The execution mode to use, e.g., 'fast', 'slow'.
    """
    # Set the TEST_MODE environment variable to control the execution mode
    os.environ['TEST_MODE'] = mode
    
    # Run the tests
    test_support.run_unittest('test_module_to_run')

# Example usage
run_tests_with_mode('slow')
```

### 4. **Running Tests with Custom Test Runner**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_custom_runner():
    """
    Run the test suite using a custom test runner.
    
    The custom runner can be implemented using the `test_support.TestProgram` class.
    """
    # Define the test program
    test_program = test_support.TestProgram(
        argv=['-m', 'unittest'],
        exit=False,
        module='test_module_to_run'
    )
    
    # Run the tests
    test_program.run()

# Example usage
run_tests_with_custom_runner()
```

### 5. **Running Tests with Specific Test Output Formats**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_output_format(format):
    """
    Run the test suite and capture its output in a specific format.
    
    Parameters:
        format (str): The output format, e.g., 'text', 'junitxml'.
    """
    # Set the TEST_OUTPUT_FORMAT environment variable to control the output format
    os.environ['TEST_OUTPUT_FORMAT'] = format
    
    # Run the tests
    test_support.run_unittest('test_module_to_run')

# Example usage
run_tests_with_output_format('junitxml')
```

### 6. **Running Tests with Specific Test Suite Configuration**

```python
import test.support

def run_tests_with_config(config):
    """
    Run the test suite using a specific configuration.
    
    Parameters:
        config (dict): The configuration settings to apply, e.g., {'verbose': True}.
    """
    # Set the TEST_CONFIG environment variable to control the configuration
    os.environ['TEST_CONFIG'] = json.dumps(config)
    
    # Run the tests
    test_support.run_unittest('test_module_to_run')

# Example usage
config = {'verbose': True}
run_tests_with_config(config)
```

These examples demonstrate how to use various functionalities provided by `test.support` to customize and control the execution of Python unit tests. Each example includes comments explaining the purpose, parameters, and usage of the functions.
