standard_library_documents/Development Tools/unittest - Unit testing framework.md, before:

# unittest - Unit testing framework

The `unittest` module is a powerful tool for writing unit tests in Python. It provides a flexible framework that allows you to create test cases, define assertions, and run tests programmatically. Below are comprehensive examples covering various functionalities of the `unittest` module.

### Example 1: Basic Test Case

```python
import unittest

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    def setUp(self):
        # Set up any resources or state that need to be initialized before each test
        self.value = 10

    def tearDown(self):
        # Clean up any resources or state after each test
        pass

    def test_addition(self):
        # Test the addition of two numbers
        result = self.value + 5
        self.assertEqual(result, 15, "The sum should be 15")

    def test_subtraction(self):
        # Test the subtraction of a number from another number
        result = self.value - 3
        self.assertEqual(result, 7, "The difference should be 7")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 2: Test Case with Setup and Teardown

```python
import unittest

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    def setUp(self):
        # Set up any resources or state that need to be initialized before each test
        self.value = 10

    def tearDown(self):
        # Clean up any resources or state after each test
        pass

    def test_addition(self):
        # Test the addition of two numbers
        result = self.value + 5
        self.assertEqual(result, 15, "The sum should be 15")

    def test_subtraction(self):
        # Test the subtraction of a number from another number
        result = self.value - 3
        self.assertEqual(result, 7, "The difference should be 7")

    @classmethod
    def setUpClass(cls):
        # Set up any resources or state that need to be initialized before all tests
        cls.shared_resource = [1, 2, 3]

    @classmethod
    def tearDownClass(cls):
        # Clean up any resources or state after all tests
        del cls.shared_resource

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 3: Test Case with Assertions

```python
import unittest

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_greater_than(self):
        # Test if a value is greater than another
        self.assertGreater(15, 10, "15 should be greater than 10")

    def test_less_than_or_equal_to(self):
        # Test if a value is less than or equal to another
        self.assertLessEqual(10, 10, "10 should be less than or equal to 10")

    def test_is_instance(self):
        # Test if an object is an instance of a class
        self.assertIsInstance("Hello", str, "The string 'Hello' should be an instance of str")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 4: Test Case with Assertions for Exceptions

```python
import unittest

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_division_by_zero(self):
        # Test if a division by zero raises a ZeroDivisionError
        self.assertRaises(ZeroDivisionError, lambda: 10 / 0)

    def test_invalid_input(self):
        # Test if an invalid input raises a ValueError
        with self.assertRaises(ValueError):
            int("a")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 5: Test Case with Parameterized Tests

```python
import unittest
from parameterized import parameterized

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    @parameterized.expand([
        (1, 2, 3),
        (4, 5, 9),
        (-1, -1, 0),
        (0, 0, 0)
    ])
    def test_addition_with_parameters(self, a, b, expected):
        # Test the addition of two numbers with parameterized inputs
        result = a + b
        self.assertEqual(result, expected, f"The sum should be {expected}")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 6: Test Case with Test Suite

```python
import unittest

class TestCase1(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_addition(self):
        # Test the addition of two numbers in TestCase1
        self.assertEqual(5 + 5, 10)

class TestCase2(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_subtraction(self):
        # Test the subtraction of two numbers in TestCase2
        self.assertEqual(10 - 5, 5)

def suite():
    suite = unittest.TestSuite()
    suite.addTest(TestCase1('test_addition'))
    suite.addTest(TestCase2('test_subtraction'))
    return suite

if __name__ == '__main__':
    runner = unittest.TextTestRunner()
    runner.run(suite())
```

### Example 7: Test Case with Test Loader

```python
import unittest

def load_tests(loader, tests=None, pattern='test_*.py'):
    if tests is None:
        tests = loader.discover('.')
    return tests

if __name__ == '__main__':
    suite = unittest.TestLoader().discover()
    runner = unittest.TextTestRunner()
    runner.run(suite)
```

These examples cover a range of functionalities within the `unittest` module, from basic test cases to more advanced features like parameterized testing and test loading. Each example is designed to be clear, concise, and suitable for integration into Python documentation.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/Development Tools/unittest - Unit testing framework.md, after:

# unittest - Unit testing framework
## Table of Contents

1. [Example 1: Basic Test Case](#example-1-basic-test-case)
2. [Example 2: Test Case with Setup and Teardown](#example-2-test-case-with-setup-and-teardown)
3. [Example 3: Test Case with Assertions](#example-3-test-case-with-assertions)
4. [Example 4: Test Case with Assertions for Exceptions](#example-4-test-case-with-assertions-for-exceptions)
5. [Example 5: Test Case with Parameterized Tests](#example-5-test-case-with-parameterized-tests)
6. [Example 6: Test Case with Test Suite](#example-6-test-case-with-test-suite)
7. [Example 7: Test Case with Test Loader](#example-7-test-case-with-test-loader)



The `unittest` module is a powerful tool for writing unit tests in Python. It provides a flexible framework that allows you to create test cases, define assertions, and run tests programmatically. Below are comprehensive examples covering various functionalities of the `unittest` module.

### Example 1: Basic Test Case

```python
import unittest

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    def setUp(self):
        # Set up any resources or state that need to be initialized before each test
        self.value = 10

    def tearDown(self):
        # Clean up any resources or state after each test
        pass

    def test_addition(self):
        # Test the addition of two numbers
        result = self.value + 5
        self.assertEqual(result, 15, "The sum should be 15")

    def test_subtraction(self):
        # Test the subtraction of a number from another number
        result = self.value - 3
        self.assertEqual(result, 7, "The difference should be 7")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 2: Test Case with Setup and Teardown

```python
import unittest

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    def setUp(self):
        # Set up any resources or state that need to be initialized before each test
        self.value = 10

    def tearDown(self):
        # Clean up any resources or state after each test
        pass

    def test_addition(self):
        # Test the addition of two numbers
        result = self.value + 5
        self.assertEqual(result, 15, "The sum should be 15")

    def test_subtraction(self):
        # Test the subtraction of a number from another number
        result = self.value - 3
        self.assertEqual(result, 7, "The difference should be 7")

    @classmethod
    def setUpClass(cls):
        # Set up any resources or state that need to be initialized before all tests
        cls.shared_resource = [1, 2, 3]

    @classmethod
    def tearDownClass(cls):
        # Clean up any resources or state after all tests
        del cls.shared_resource

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 3: Test Case with Assertions

```python
import unittest

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_greater_than(self):
        # Test if a value is greater than another
        self.assertGreater(15, 10, "15 should be greater than 10")

    def test_less_than_or_equal_to(self):
        # Test if a value is less than or equal to another
        self.assertLessEqual(10, 10, "10 should be less than or equal to 10")

    def test_is_instance(self):
        # Test if an object is an instance of a class
        self.assertIsInstance("Hello", str, "The string 'Hello' should be an instance of str")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 4: Test Case with Assertions for Exceptions

```python
import unittest

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_division_by_zero(self):
        # Test if a division by zero raises a ZeroDivisionError
        self.assertRaises(ZeroDivisionError, lambda: 10 / 0)

    def test_invalid_input(self):
        # Test if an invalid input raises a ValueError
        with self.assertRaises(ValueError):
            int("a")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 5: Test Case with Parameterized Tests

```python
import unittest
from parameterized import parameterized

class MyTestCase(unittest.TestCase):
    @parameterized.expand([
        (1, 2, 3),
        (4, 5, 9),
        (-1, -1, 0),
        (0, 0, 0)
    ])
    def test_addition_with_parameters(self, a, b, expected):
        # Test the addition of two numbers with parameterized inputs
        result = a + b
        self.assertEqual(result, expected, f"The sum should be {expected}")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    unittest.main()
```

### Example 6: Test Case with Test Suite

```python
import unittest

class TestCase1(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_addition(self):
        # Test the addition of two numbers in TestCase1
        self.assertEqual(5 + 5, 10)

class TestCase2(unittest.TestCase):
    def test_subtraction(self):
        # Test the subtraction of two numbers in TestCase2
        self.assertEqual(10 - 5, 5)

def suite():
    suite = unittest.TestSuite()
    suite.addTest(TestCase1('test_addition'))
    suite.addTest(TestCase2('test_subtraction'))
    return suite

if __name__ == '__main__':
    runner = unittest.TextTestRunner()
    runner.run(suite())
```

### Example 7: Test Case with Test Loader

```python
import unittest

def load_tests(loader, tests=None, pattern='test_*.py'):
    if tests is None:
        tests = loader.discover('.')
    return tests

if __name__ == '__main__':
    suite = unittest.TestLoader().discover()
    runner = unittest.TextTestRunner()
    runner.run(suite)
```

These examples cover a range of functionalities within the `unittest` module, from basic test cases to more advanced features like parameterized testing and test loading. Each example is designed to be clear, concise, and suitable for integration into Python documentation.
