standard_library_documents/XML Processing Modules/xml.etree.ElementTree - The ElementTree XML API.md, before:

# xml.etree.ElementTree - The ElementTree XML API

The `xml.etree.ElementTree` is a lightweight and efficient library in Python used for parsing and creating XML data. Below are comprehensive and well-documented code examples covering various functionalities of the `ElementTree` module:

### 1. Creating an Element Tree

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Create the root element
root = ET.Element("bookstore")

# Add child elements to the root
book = ET.SubElement(root, "book", ISBN="978-3-16-148410-0")
title = ET.SubElement(book, "title")
title.text = "XML Developer's Guide"
author = ET.SubElement(book, "author")
author.text = "David Beazley"

# Create a new ElementTree object
tree = ET.ElementTree(root)

# Write the tree to an XML file
tree.write("bookstore.xml", encoding="utf-8", xml_declaration=True)
```

### 2. Parsing an XML File

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse the XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Get the root element of the tree
root = tree.getroot()

# Iterate over each book in the bookstore
for book in root.findall("book"):
    isbn = book.attrib["ISBN"]
    title = book.find("title").text
    author = book.find("author").text

    print(f"ISBN: {isbn}, Title: {title}, Author: {author}")
```

### 3. Creating an Element and Adding Attributes

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Create a new element with attributes
person = ET.Element("person", first="John", last="Doe")

# Add text to the element
person.text = "This is John Doe."

# Write the element to an XML file
tree = ET.ElementTree(person)
tree.write("person.xml")
```

### 4. Adding Elements and Text to Existing Elements

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse an existing XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Get the root element of the tree
root = tree.getroot()

# Create a new book element
new_book = ET.Element("book", ISBN="978-3-16-148420-3")

# Add child elements to the new book
title = ET.SubElement(new_book, "title")
title.text = "Learning XML"

author = ET.SubElement(new_book, "author")
author.text = "James Clarke"

# Append the new book element to the root
root.append(new_book)

# Write the updated tree back to an XML file
tree.write("updated-bookstore.xml", encoding="utf-8", xml_declaration=True)
```

### 5. Iterating Over Elements with Specific Tags

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse an XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Get the root element of the tree
root = tree.getroot()

# Iterate over each book title in the bookstore
for title in root.findall(".//title"):
    print(title.text)
```

### 6. Removing Elements and Text

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse an existing XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Get the root element of the tree
root = tree.getroot()

# Find a specific book by ISBN and remove it
for book in root.findall("book"):
    if book.attrib["ISBN"] == "978-3-16-148420-3":
        root.remove(book)

# Write the updated tree back to an XML file
tree.write("updated-bookstore.xml", encoding="utf-8", xml_declaration=True)
```

### 7. Searching for Elements Using XPath

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse an XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Use XPath to find all book elements with a specific author
books_by_james = tree.findall(".//book[author='James Clarke']")

# Iterate over the found books and print their titles
for book in books_by_james:
    title = book.find("title").text
    print(f"Title: {title}")
```

### 8. Writing Elements to a String

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Create an element tree
root = ET.Element("bookstore")
ET.SubElement(root, "book", ISBN="978-3-16-148420-3").text = "Learning XML"

# Convert the tree to a string
xml_string = ET.tostring(root, encoding="unicode")

print(xml_string)
```

These examples demonstrate various aspects of working with XML using `ElementTree`, from creating and parsing documents to modifying and searching for elements. Each example includes comments explaining key steps and best practices for handling XML data in Python.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/XML Processing Modules/xml.etree.ElementTree - The ElementTree XML API.md, after:

# xml.etree.ElementTree - The ElementTree XML API
## Table of Contents

1. [1. Creating an Element Tree](#1-creating-an-element-tree)
2. [2. Parsing an XML File](#2-parsing-an-xml-file)
3. [3. Creating an Element and Adding Attributes](#3-creating-an-element-and-adding-attributes)
4. [4. Adding Elements and Text to Existing Elements](#4-adding-elements-and-text-to-existing-elements)
5. [5. Iterating Over Elements with Specific Tags](#5-iterating-over-elements-with-specific-tags)
6. [6. Removing Elements and Text](#6-removing-elements-and-text)
7. [7. Searching for Elements Using XPath](#7-searching-for-elements-using-xpath)
8. [8. Writing Elements to a String](#8-writing-elements-to-a-string)



The `xml.etree.ElementTree` is a lightweight and efficient library in Python used for parsing and creating XML data. Below are comprehensive and well-documented code examples covering various functionalities of the `ElementTree` module:

### 1. Creating an Element Tree

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Create the root element
root = ET.Element("bookstore")

# Add child elements to the root
book = ET.SubElement(root, "book", ISBN="978-3-16-148410-0")
title = ET.SubElement(book, "title")
title.text = "XML Developer's Guide"
author = ET.SubElement(book, "author")
author.text = "David Beazley"

# Create a new ElementTree object
tree = ET.ElementTree(root)

# Write the tree to an XML file
tree.write("bookstore.xml", encoding="utf-8", xml_declaration=True)
```

### 2. Parsing an XML File

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse the XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Get the root element of the tree
root = tree.getroot()

# Iterate over each book in the bookstore
for book in root.findall("book"):
    isbn = book.attrib["ISBN"]
    title = book.find("title").text
    author = book.find("author").text

    print(f"ISBN: {isbn}, Title: {title}, Author: {author}")
```

### 3. Creating an Element and Adding Attributes

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Create a new element with attributes
person = ET.Element("person", first="John", last="Doe")

# Add text to the element
person.text = "This is John Doe."

# Write the element to an XML file
tree = ET.ElementTree(person)
tree.write("person.xml")
```

### 4. Adding Elements and Text to Existing Elements

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse an existing XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Get the root element of the tree
root = tree.getroot()

# Create a new book element
new_book = ET.Element("book", ISBN="978-3-16-148420-3")

# Add child elements to the new book
title = ET.SubElement(new_book, "title")
title.text = "Learning XML"

author = ET.SubElement(new_book, "author")
author.text = "James Clarke"

# Append the new book element to the root
root.append(new_book)

# Write the updated tree back to an XML file
tree.write("updated-bookstore.xml", encoding="utf-8", xml_declaration=True)
```

### 5. Iterating Over Elements with Specific Tags

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse an XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Get the root element of the tree
root = tree.getroot()

# Iterate over each book title in the bookstore
for title in root.findall(".//title"):
    print(title.text)
```

### 6. Removing Elements and Text

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse an existing XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Get the root element of the tree
root = tree.getroot()

# Find a specific book by ISBN and remove it
for book in root.findall("book"):
    if book.attrib["ISBN"] == "978-3-16-148420-3":
        root.remove(book)

# Write the updated tree back to an XML file
tree.write("updated-bookstore.xml", encoding="utf-8", xml_declaration=True)
```

### 7. Searching for Elements Using XPath

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Parse an XML file
tree = ET.parse('bookstore.xml')

# Use XPath to find all book elements with a specific author
books_by_james = tree.findall(".//book[author='James Clarke']")

# Iterate over the found books and print their titles
for book in books_by_james:
    title = book.find("title").text
    print(f"Title: {title}")
```

### 8. Writing Elements to a String

```python
from xml.etree import ElementTree as ET

# Create an element tree
root = ET.Element("bookstore")
ET.SubElement(root, "book", ISBN="978-3-16-148420-3").text = "Learning XML"

# Convert the tree to a string
xml_string = ET.tostring(root, encoding="unicode")

print(xml_string)
```

These examples demonstrate various aspects of working with XML using `ElementTree`, from creating and parsing documents to modifying and searching for elements. Each example includes comments explaining key steps and best practices for handling XML data in Python.
