standard_library_documents/XML Processing Modules/xml.parsers.expat - Fast XML parsing using Expat.md, before:

# xml.parsers.expat - Fast XML parsing using Expat

Below are comprehensive code examples for various functionalities of the `xml.parsers.expat` module, which is a fast and simple parser for XML documents in Python.

### Example 1: Basic Parsing with Callbacks

This example demonstrates how to use callbacks to handle elements and attributes during parsing.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

# Define callback functions for handling start tags, end tags, and character data
def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string
xml_data = """
<bookstore>
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Everyday Italian</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
    </book>
    <book category="children">
        <title lang="en">Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone</title>
        <author>J.K. Rowling</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>29.99</price>
    </book>
</bookstore>
"""

parser.Parse(xml_data)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 2: Parsing XML from a File

This example shows how to parse an XML file using the `xml.parsers.expat` module.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML file
with open('books.xml', 'r') as file:
    parser.ParseFile(file)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 3: Parsing with Attributes and Namespaces

This example demonstrates how to handle attributes and namespaces during parsing.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string with namespaces
xml_data = """
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<bookstore xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
           xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.example.com/books
                               books.xsd">
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Everyday Italian</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
    </book>
    <book category="children" xmlns:child="http://www.example.com/children">
        <title lang="en">Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone</title>
        <author>J.K. Rowling</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>29.99</price>
    </book>
</bookstore>
"""

parser.Parse(xml_data)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 4: Error Handling

This example demonstrates how to handle parsing errors gracefully.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string with a syntax error
xml_data = """
<bookstore>
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Everyday Italian</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
</bookstore>
"""

try:
    parser.Parse(xml_data)
except xml.parsers.expat.ExpatError as e:
    print(f"Error parsing XML: {e}")

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 5: Parsing with Entity References

This example demonstrates how to handle entity references during parsing.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string with entity references
xml_data = """
<bookstore>
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Everyday Italian &amp; Pasta</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
    </book>
</bookstore>
"""

parser.Parse(xml_data)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 6: Parsing with Encoding

This example demonstrates how to handle different character encodings during parsing.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate('iso-8859-1', 'replace')

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string with ISO-8859-1 encoding and replace unsupported characters
xml_data = """
<bookstore>
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Área de cocina</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
    </book>
</bookstore>
"""

parser.Parse(xml_data)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

These examples cover various aspects of using the `xml.parsers.expat` module, including basic parsing with callbacks, parsing from files, handling attributes and namespaces, error handling, entity references, and different character encodings. You can include these in your documentation to provide a comprehensive understanding of the module's capabilities.

Commit message:

added table of contents for markdown files

standard_library_documents/XML Processing Modules/xml.parsers.expat - Fast XML parsing using Expat.md, after:

# xml.parsers.expat - Fast XML parsing using Expat
## Table of Contents

1. [Example 1: Basic Parsing with Callbacks](#example-1-basic-parsing-with-callbacks)
2. [Example 2: Parsing XML from a File](#example-2-parsing-xml-from-a-file)
3. [Example 3: Parsing with Attributes and Namespaces](#example-3-parsing-with-attributes-and-namespaces)
4. [Example 4: Error Handling](#example-4-error-handling)
5. [Example 5: Parsing with Entity References](#example-5-parsing-with-entity-references)
6. [Example 6: Parsing with Encoding](#example-6-parsing-with-encoding)



Below are comprehensive code examples for various functionalities of the `xml.parsers.expat` module, which is a fast and simple parser for XML documents in Python.

### Example 1: Basic Parsing with Callbacks

This example demonstrates how to use callbacks to handle elements and attributes during parsing.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

# Define callback functions for handling start tags, end tags, and character data
def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string
xml_data = """
<bookstore>
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Everyday Italian</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
    </book>
    <book category="children">
        <title lang="en">Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone</title>
        <author>J.K. Rowling</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>29.99</price>
    </book>
</bookstore>
"""

parser.Parse(xml_data)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 2: Parsing XML from a File

This example shows how to parse an XML file using the `xml.parsers.expat` module.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML file
with open('books.xml', 'r') as file:
    parser.ParseFile(file)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 3: Parsing with Attributes and Namespaces

This example demonstrates how to handle attributes and namespaces during parsing.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string with namespaces
xml_data = """
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<bookstore xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
           xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.example.com/books
                               books.xsd">
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Everyday Italian</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
    </book>
    <book category="children" xmlns:child="http://www.example.com/children">
        <title lang="en">Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone</title>
        <author>J.K. Rowling</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>29.99</price>
    </book>
</bookstore>
"""

parser.Parse(xml_data)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 4: Error Handling

This example demonstrates how to handle parsing errors gracefully.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string with a syntax error
xml_data = """
<bookstore>
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Everyday Italian</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
</bookstore>
"""

try:
    parser.Parse(xml_data)
except xml.parsers.expat.ExpatError as e:
    print(f"Error parsing XML: {e}")

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 5: Parsing with Entity References

This example demonstrates how to handle entity references during parsing.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate()

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string with entity references
xml_data = """
<bookstore>
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Everyday Italian &amp; Pasta</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
    </book>
</bookstore>
"""

parser.Parse(xml_data)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

### Example 6: Parsing with Encoding

This example demonstrates how to handle different character encodings during parsing.

```python
import xml.parsers.expat

def start_element(name, attrs):
    print(f"Start Element: {name}")
    for attr_name, attr_value in attrs.items():
        print(f"  Attribute: {attr_name} = {attr_value}")

def end_element(name):
    print(f"End Element: {name}")

def characters(data):
    print(f"Characters: {data.strip()}")

# Create a parser object
parser = xml.parsers.expat.ParserCreate('iso-8859-1', 'replace')

# Set the callback functions
parser.StartElementHandler = start_element
parser.EndElementHandler = end_element
parser.CharacterDataHandler = characters

# Parse an XML string with ISO-8859-1 encoding and replace unsupported characters
xml_data = """
<bookstore>
    <book category="cooking">
        <title lang="en">Área de cocina</title>
        <author>Giada De Laurentis</author>
        <year>2005</year>
        <price>13.50</price>
    </book>
</bookstore>
"""

parser.Parse(xml_data)

# Call end_element for any remaining unclosed tags
parser.Parse('', True)
```

These examples cover various aspects of using the `xml.parsers.expat` module, including basic parsing with callbacks, parsing from files, handling attributes and namespaces, error handling, entity references, and different character encodings. You can include these in your documentation to provide a comprehensive understanding of the module's capabilities.
